[music]
>> There may be a meaningful correction at
some point in over the course of 2026.
We want to make sure we're managing risk
well next year. What the market is
saying is that earnings matter more than
ever right now.
>> It is encouraging that we are seeing
broader participation in the rally.
Investors need to be ready for surprises
and the unexpected.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, [music]
and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance on the penultimate trading
day of 2025. Silver rebounding after its
biggest drop in more than 5 years
yesterday as thin trading and leverage
traders drive heightened volatility.
President Trump threatening to bring a
lawsuit against Fed Chair Powell for
quote incompetence and tech companies
racing to lock in deals ahead of the new
year with Meta agreeing to a rare
purchase of an Asian [music] tech
company. It's coming in just 10 days
according to people familiar with the
matter. Guy Johnson is beaming in to
join me from London this morning. I'm
beaming in from New York. Jonathan and
Marie are both off. Guy, thank you so
much for being with us. We are seeing a
bit of a sputtering out of the Santa
Claus rally at the same time [music]
that there's a lot of volatility in the
metal space. How much are we seeing just
the typical end of the year mush versus
something [music]
that does give a signal as 2026?
Beaming in, does that imply I have to
smile throughout this entire show?
>> 100% absolutely.
>> that anyway. Okay, I can do that. Um
look, I think there's two things to say
here, one of which is that yeah,
year-end mush is probably a factor here.
Thin markets are probably a factor here.
That's why you're getting the
choppiness. But the bigger picture,
Lisa, is that the metals market is
signaling something loud and clear. And
that is that inflation [music] is going
to be a factor. Look at what is
happening with copper. That is telling
you that there's going to be an
inflationary story into 2026. Look at
what silver and gold are telling you
right now. They're telling you that the
dollar is going to be choppy [music] as
well. That's going to be a theme into
2026. Put those two things together,
what does that mean for the Fed? Well, I
think we're going to get some clues
today when it comes to what is happening
with these minutes. I think that's going
to be really interesting.
>> Yeah, we are going to get the meeting
minutes later today around 2:00 p.m.
Eastern time. [music] We do get of
course the ADP labor market data coming
out at 8:15. We will [music] parse
through that. Tomorrow we get jobless
claims. Otherwise, it's a pretty thin
week. To that point about what we are
seeing in the metals market, we are
seeing a bit of a rebound after
yesterday [music] seeing silver come off
uh see its biggest sell-off going back 5
years. You have seen the best year since
[music] 1979 for both gold and silver.
You have seen the best year for copper
going back to 2009 with a 40% gain.
>> [music]
>> Today we build on some of those metals
gains. We are seeing silver popping back
3 and 1/2% gold 1.3% in the broader
equity space futures. Uh if you take a
look at S&P futures completely range
bound. Nasdaq as well after two straight
days of losses on both indexes. Russell
2000 [music] trying to get a little bit
of a pop with a rotation trade really
gaining steam up about a tenth of a
percent. Meanwhile, in the bond space,
it is notable how little volatility
there has been in the space [music]
throughout the second half of this year,
especially due to all the concerns that
Guy was just laying out with respect to
inflation, with respect to Fed
independence. [music]
You are seeing a little bit of a
sell-off in bond price yields slightly
higher still. We are seeing yields
significantly lower than where we
started at least in the twos and tens
[music] space. The yield curve
steepening remains prevalent. 30-year
yields at 4.8% [music]
almost exactly where they were to start
the year. Coming up this hour, Kayla
Sader of State Street Global Markets
besides looking for direction to end the
year. Wendy Schiller of Brown University
as President Donald Trump and Israel
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu
present a united front. And Constance
Hunter of Economist Intelligence on why
the United States economy faces a bumpy
road ahead. We begin this hour with
stocks little changed as traders await
Fed minutes and the latest read on the
labor market. Kayla Sader of State
Street writing, although turbulence may
remain elevated and concentration risk
will remain high in 2026, we are still
in a pro equity and buy dips
environment. Kayla joins us now for
more. Kayla, thank you so much for being
with us. Before we get into the equity
outlook for 2026, I'm wondering what
signal you're taking from a metals
market that has been beset by volatility
heading into year-end.
Yeah, hi Lisa. Thanks so much for having
me today. You know, I do think this is
kind of a case where it's not so much
fundamentally driven, it's more so
technically driven. We do kind of see
these things
at the end of the year as well. And I
think if we take a step back and look at
the broader picture, a lot of those
fundamentals remain in intact. You know,
a couple of minutes ago you already
highlighted just how great of a year a
lot of these metals have had. And how
great of a year silver has had. And I
don't think that the what the past few
days have has shown us really
signals a change in in the underlying
fundamentals there. So, let's take a
step back. And to Guy's point, it's a
really good one. How much does this
signal something deeper in terms of the
big returns for gold, for silver, for
copper? Speaking to inflation, speaking
to possible debasement of fiat
currencies, is there a signal for 2026
that is market moving that is
potentially important for markets to
listen to?
Yeah, I think there's there's two
factors I'm paying attention to here.
One is that inflation risk.
Um you know, we are not out of the woods
when it comes to inflation. It's This is
also something I'm looking to learn a
bit more about in the Fed minutes today.
It's just how concerned is the Fed about
inflation? Because we did see, you know,
notes of of dissent and things like that
in the meeting in December. So, you
know, this could reflect concerns about
inflation.
The second point is that this has been
an incredibly challenging year to
diversify. And metals have been one
source of diversification
in in portfolios. And given the overall
environment, I would expect that to
continue into 2026.
Kayla, good morning. It's Guy. Um
talk to me about where you see the
dollar going in 2026. Cuz this looks
like one of the big pivot points for the
market. If I'm a US investor, I've made
what is it? 17% in the S&P this year. If
I'm a Eurozone investor, I've made just
3%. The dollar has been the biggest
factor in my portfolio. Where does it go
next?
Yeah, everyone cares where the dollar is
going next. You know, I think while
there are fewer headwinds, there aren't
a lot of tailwinds. So, for example,
what I mean by that is when we look at
our institutional investor behavior, our
flow data signals that flows continue to
sit around neutral.
Now, uh 3 months ago, 2 months ago, they
continued to show really strong selling.
So, really what we've seen is either
selling or getting back to neutral. No
real demand for buying. And I think
we're not going to see, you know,
appetite for dollar buying until we get
through the first half of the year.
Because, you know, as we look towards
cuts, as the Fed is expected to cut,
that should continue to weigh on the
dollar moving moving forward. So, I So,
I still think there's challenges for
dollar strength from here.
So, So, you're So, you're implying that
you think the Fed will be done by
mid-year. That we'll be done with the
cuts. And the next move kind of from 6
months into this year will be a hike.
Kind of
How do [clears throat] I think of Once
I've got through the first 6 months, how
significantly does the landscape change
once we get to that point?
Yeah, that's a great question. You know,
I think moving forward, it's going to
depend on a few things. One is and the
most important thing I really think is
inflation. We are not out of the woods
when it comes to inflation. Inflation
impacts everyone but does not impact
everyone equally. And when we think
about upcoming stimulus in the economy,
so, you know, things like one big
beautiful bill act stimulus,
all of that can feed the economy and let
inflation continue to fester. And so, I
think that will be the most important
factor in determining what's next for
the Fed and really what's next for the
dollar as well. Kayla, does that mean
that you don't really buy the rotation
trade? That if you do think that
inflation is resurgent, you think that
the Fed isn't going to be in play as
much as people think. And frankly, it's
not going to fuel the outperformance of
small caps and the rest of the 493.
I think you're spot on. I think it's
going to be really challenging to see a
sustained small cap rally if we start to
see inflation or if we continue to see
inflation be be relatively stubborn. You
know, there's a reason why we even see
concentration within large cap stocks.
Is that concentration continues to sit
with high quality companies, high
quality parts of the market that are not
debt dependent, that are not impacted as
much by higher rates or elevated rates.
And so, I think that's going to continue
moving forward. It's going to be really
challenging for small caps from here. It
really raises this question about big
cap tech and whether people have maybe
had too much skepticism around that. And
I wonder about your view, especially
given some of the acquisitions that
we've seen to end the year. We saw an
Nvidia take a stake in Grok. It was a
non-controlling stake in a certain way
or not exclusive, I should say. So, it
is maybe going to fly under the
regulatory radar. This morning, Meta
Platforms is agreeing to buy Manas,
which is a Singapore-based AI-related
company with its roots very much in
China. How much does this just solidify
the dominance of the Magnificent Seven?
I really think it all comes back comes
down to balance sheets. These are huge
companies with diversified revenue
streams with huge cash flows. And so,
this gives them a lot of strength and
power in the marketplace. You know, one
thing that's interesting is when we look
at our data, so, you know, over 40
trillion assets under under custody
looking specifically at institutional
investors, what we find is that there's
really just one overweight, and it's
tech. You see a relatively like mild
overweight in communications. Everything
else is neutral or underweight. And so,
I think that begs two questions. One,
where do we go from here? Is there any
room within tech where we can still add
exposure?
The question The answer to that is is
yes. Actually, when we look at
positioning, one industry group where
positioning is just neutral is software.
So, there still is room to add to
software.
The other point is that are there any
underweight sectors where we should
start to see appetite increase just
because they're too underweight? And one
place where that stands out in that
regard is healthcare. So, healthcare
flows have started to increase, and I
think that's more a reflection of
exposures just so underweight, and there
are less headwinds now than there were
before. I'm not saying we're extremely
bullish on healthcare, but, you know, we
are starting to see some signs of M&A
and signs of of improvement that maybe
look like there is just too much bad
news news there. But, I think, you know,
moving forward into 2026, that big story
is really going to continue to be AI and
tech.
Kayla, how divorced
from the consumer is the AI trade? Can
the consumer still slow down and the AI
trade carry on? I Is Is this a twin
track economy?
And you could almost People talk about
the K-shaped recovery, but is it a
K-shaped market? And is it going to
continue to be a K-shaped market?
Absolutely. I think you kind of see
shades of this K-shaped economy,
K-shaped market, you know, in a lot of
parts of of the market and the economy.
So, on one hand, you have small cap
versus large cap companies. That's
likely to continue.
We see a K-shaped economy in terms of
the consumer. That's likely to continue.
And one really important factor there is
that there are structural uh structural
changes that have occurred over the last
5 years that really exacerbate the K.
So, for example, housing. Housing has
become so unaffordable for so many parts
of the market and or so many
participants in the economy.
So, for example, thinking about how
during COVID so many people refinanced
their mortgages. And if you didn't have
a home then, you really missed out on
that opportunity. And now if you're
still renting, you know, you're still
stuck in that environment where you're
impacted by still relatively high
interest rates. And so, that's another
example of a K. I think we see it, you
know, as as you said, two two tracks, I
think. I think we'll continue to see
that in terms of equities and in the
real economy. And I that really
highlights why inflation is so
structurally important. And I think
that's why, bringing it back to the Fed,
you're starting to see more members of
the Fed be more vocal about those
inflation concerns. Kayla Sater of
Strategas, thank you so much for being
with us. Kayla Sater, have a wonderful
New Year and see you in 2026. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg Brief with Lizzie Burden.
Lizzie.
Hey Lisa. President Donald Trump says
that the US struck a facility inside
Venezuela in what would be a significant
[music] escalation in its campaign
against alleged drug trafficking
operations there. Trump's reference to
an attack within Venezuela would mark
the first time that the US has announced
a land strike in the country.
And Russian President Vladimir Putin
says that he'll revise his country's
negotiating position after claiming that
Ukrainian drones targeted his residence.
[music]
Putin told President Trump in a call on
Monday that Moscow intends to [music]
work closely with the US on peace
efforts, but would reconsider a number
of previously reached agreements.
[music]
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy
dismissed the Russian claims as a new
lie. And President Donald Trump
reiterating that he'd love to fire Fed
Chair Jay Powell. Trump saying that he
might still fire him for quote gross
incompetence. [music]
Trump came close to seeking the Fed
Chair's ouster in July, but backed away
after a negative reaction in financial
markets. He said he'll probably announce
his pick for Fed Chair in January, and
his preferred candidate hasn't changed.
That should be my brief, Lisa. Thank you
so much, Lizzie. The easiest job in
Washington, D.C. Up next, standing
behind Israel.
We talked about Hamas, and they're going
to be given a very short period of time
to disarm. Speaking of Iran, I hope
they're not trying to build up again
because if they are, we're going to have
no choice but very quickly to eradicate
that build-up. Wendy Schiller of Brown
University joins us next as we expand
our view from the domestic to the
international. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> It's a sputtering out of the Santa Claus
rally, at least for now. We had seen two
straight days of losses, potentially
building on that for a third straight
day with S&P futures lower by about a
tenth of a percent. You are seeing a bit
of a sell-off in the bond space, but
really it has been incredibly quiet, not
very volatile in the fixed income
cohort, 4.11%
in the crude market. This has been a
market. Crude futures have lost 17% so
far this year, on pace for their worst
year going back to the height of the
pandemic back in 2020. We are seeing a
bit of a firming up this morning,
potentially because of geopolitics,
potentially because OPEC plus is likely
to confirm an oil production pause. This
is being reported this morning. In the
meantime, a real question around
geopolitics under surveillance this
morning, standing behind Israel.
I'm not concerned about anything that
Israel's doing. Israel's lived up to the
plan 100%. Speaking of Iran, I hope
they're not trying to build up again
because if they are, we're going to have
no choice but very quickly to eradicate
that build-up. We talked about Hamas,
and we talked about disarmament.
And they're going to be given a very
short period of time to disarm. If they
don't disarm as as they agreed to do,
they agreed to it, and then they'll be
held to pay for them.
>> [music]
>> Here's the latest. President Donald
Trump meeting with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Florida.
The president issuing a new warning for
Hamas in the push to move towards phase
two of the peace plan for Gaza. Joining
us now is someone who's been covering
the story very closely, Bloomberg's
Israel bureau chief, Ethan Bronner from
Tel Aviv. Ethan, can you just give us a
sense of what stood out for you the most
from the meeting that we saw yesterday
between the two leaders?
Well, I think the clips you played stood
out most for me in the sense that they
were such a full embrace of Israel by
the president. It's not entirely clear
that that's exactly what's happening
behind the scenes, but as a public
gesture, certainly
uh that was the most important thing for
Netanyahu. Uh and, you know, it remains
to be seen whether whether anything has
been decided about how to move forward
in Gaza uh as well as in a whole range
of other issues around Israel. They were
very very sparse with the details
publicly.
Ethan, there was also this extra
question around Iran and whether this
really did raise the specter of
additional strikes by Israel or frankly
by the US on Iranian nuclear facilities.
How much credence should we put into
that?
That's another very difficult question.
I would say that um Israel believes that
by talking aloud about the possible
strike, uh it will uh spook Iran into
reducing its activity, and therefore
there won't be a need for it. But, I
don't It doesn't mean that they won't
ultimately do it. There's an enormous
amount of talk in Israel about the need
to take on Iran one more time because of
its ballistic missile program and its
rebuilding apparently of its nuclear
program. So, I do think it's a serious
concern.
Ethan,
in terms of the the view of what is
going on in Iran right now within
Israel,
there's a lot of domestic turbulence,
there's a lot of concern within, I would
have thought, the the upper echelons of
the Iranian authorities about what is
happening on the streets.
To what extent is Israel going to sit
back and watch that? Or does it feel
that that just encourages
the need for further action? Is the Is
the regime seen as weak and getting
weaker?
The regime is seen as weak and getting
weaker, but it's been it's been more
than a decade that we've been hearing
Israeli
analysts and officials say this
government in Iran can't last, the
people want to rise up against it, and
so on. So, I think that, you know, like
everyone, like in Venezuela, like in a
sort of whole bunch of other places,
it's very difficult to predict what kind
of tipping point you reach, how to make
sure it's going to actually happen. So,
I think that the Israelis uh are eager
to see this happen. That's That's their
ideal rather than have be any kind of
military activity. And so, it's a kind
of, you know, they do they move on both
uh fronts at the same time. Ethan
Bronner, thank you so much for being
with us and have a wonderful New Year.
Joining us now, Wendy Schiller of Brown
University. Wendy, thank you so much for
being with us. I want to start with the
focus that we're seeing in Washington,
D.C. with President Trump squarely
looking at Israel, squarely looking at
Ukraine and Russia, squarely looking at
Venezuela. What do you make of the
geopolitical focus to end the year in
Washington, D.C.?
Well, Lisa, I think this is a
continuation of President Trump's pivot
to exercising US power in selected ways.
I mean, we see this with all presidents
when things domestically look a little
bit more complicated uh and maybe not
going as well as they would like in
terms of getting the economy to where I
think the Trump administration would
prefer to be for consumers, um looking
at how the United States can be
relevant, how Trump can be relevant. Uh,
and it's a flurry of activity and he
seems, you know, for the moment
genuinely committed not only to
exercising US power, but to achieving
some breakthroughs, to getting some
accomplishments, particularly with the
Russia-Ukraine situation. Given that,
what do you make overnight of this
accusation by Vladimir Putin that
Ukraine targeted his home and saying
that he was going to pause negotiations.
How much do you think that really will
derail that? And how much support do you
see President Trump having with his in
his own party to side with Vladimir
Putin?
Well, Lisa, this is a really important
question going into 2026. As the
Republicans, particularly in the house,
have to really see, you know, what where
what their position is literally with
their own voters and their own
constituents and they're getting sort of
hammered on a lot of fronts and spending
lots of time worrying about overseas
matters. You know, doesn't seem like a
winning combination or platform for the
Republicans given affordability issues
and, you know, whatever the fallout is
on not extending the Obamacare
subsidies. So, so for Ukraine, I think
the issue is that Putin doesn't seem to
want to stop. He just seems not inclined
despite the losses, despite economic
penalties that he's incurring, he
doesn't want to stop and I think that's
becoming more apparent and there'll have
to be some seating of territory and this
is a problem for Trump because, you
know, if Putin keeps moving the goal
line, it's just almost impossible to get
a solid deal.
Wendy, just picking up on that point.
Good morning, it's Guy. How much longer
has the president got to get all this
done before he needs to focus on the
midterms, before he, as you say, that he
needs to turn back to domestic matters?
Well, Guy, this is the interesting thing
about a second term president,
particularly President Trump right now.
The exercise of executive power, Trump
has used it in ways we haven't seen
before. Um, but foreign policy has
always been sort of a freer range for
executives and you can accomplish more
without Congress um, in foreign policy.
He's got tariffs, he's We'll see what
the Supreme Court says he can continue
to do. But the point is for Trump, the
midterms don't actually matter all that
much. You know, he is in the model of a
unitary executive. He's going to do what
he wants to do until somebody stops him.
And Congress so far has not exercised
its power to stop him. So, we may say,
"Oh, he's a lame duck a year from now if
they lose the house and maybe even the
Senate." But in terms of the exercise of
foreign policy, and even you can argue
tariffs and possibly economic policy,
he's going to keep going to use his
executive power to the fullest.
But just in just in terms of his
bandwidth, at the moment there seems to
be a lot of bandwidth being used
on foreign policy. He's got what's
happening in the Middle East up in the
air right now. He's got what's happening
in Venezuela up in the air right now.
He's got Ukraine up in the air right
now. It's taking a lot of time. Does he
have the time to do all of this or does
he actually now need to start focusing
on those midterms? Just from a sort of
political point of view.
There's only 24 hours in the day. Can he
spend as much time as he's doing at the
moment on foreign policy and still see
the Republicans having a decent showing
come November?
Well, Guy, this is the really key
question. For the Republicans, they're
worried about his intervention in their
primaries. So, you know, when he decides
to turn his attention to what they're
doing, it matters to them because he can
certainly, as we've seen in the fall
even in Tennessee, swing a primary at
the last minute. So, he doesn't think he
has to pay attention 24 hours or really
pivot that much. He has to intervene
where it's going to be expedient for
him. I think he would like to see these
Obamacare subsidies extended. He may
have different rhetoric, but he doesn't
want that calamity on his hands. It's a
distraction. But second, Trump likes
Trump likes a win. He likes a win he can
take credit for and increasingly he's
recognizing that's going to be much more
difficult domestically than it is
foreign policy. So, I I don't expect him
to change his pivot anytime because he's
got this political lever in the
primaries on the Republicans at least
for the next 6 months that he can swoop
in, pressure point them and get them to
do what he thinks will be in his best
interest where he can claim a victory.
So, I'm not sure bandwidth is the right
um, concept for Donald Trump. It's
political victory. Where he sees it, he
wants to take it. Wendy Schiller of
Brown University, thank you so much for
being with us and have a wonderful New
Year's celebration. Coming up, our
conversation with Fed Governor Stephen
Myron on his push for lower rates in the
new year. Plus, Yahaira Anand with your
morning movers, Newmont shares
recovering this morning after major
metal volatility. Those shares up 1.7%
from New York. Futures are looking for
maybe a bounce back after [music] two
days of losses. This is Bloomberg
Morning.
>> [music]
>> This is supposed to be a wonderful time
of year for stock [music] market gains.
We haven't seen it over the past couple
of trading sessions, two straight days
of losses. Today building a little bit
on that at least when it comes to S&P
and Nasdaq futures taking a little bit
of heat after a year of pretty
phenomenal returns. We're already up
about 17% so far this year on the S&P.
The Nasdaq up about 20%. Right now,
you're down about a tenth of a percent
on both indexes. The Russell 2000
diverging with futures up by about a
tenth of a percent with a real focus on
the Federal Reserve and how much they
can cut next year. Right now [music] in
the twos, tens and 30s, a mild sell-off,
but ultimately the stability here is
what's giving so many [music] people
confidence. The idea that two-year yield
has been completely pegged at 3 and 1/2%
or below that after earlier this year
being around 4.3%.
30-year yields though still [music]
around 4.8%. The yield curve steepening
continues which raises questions about
inflation and raises questions about
what we're seeing in the metals trade.
When you take a look at gold and silver
rebounding after yesterday's sell-off.
Silver seeing its worst day yesterday
going back 5 years. [music]
Copper on its longest winning streak
going back to 2017
with the biggest annual gains since
2009. Gold and silver on track [music]
for their biggest annual gains since
1979 building on that this morning. 3
hours away from the cash open. Here are
your morning movers with Yahaira Anand.
Yahaira. Hi, Lisa. We start with Tesla.
Those shares rebounding up 9/10 [music]
of a percent this morning after falling
more than 3% yesterday on fresh concerns
[music] about its Cybertruck. That's
because a key supplier slashed its
battery contract with Tesla for about by
about [music] 99%
and those batteries were tied were
central to the Cybertruck. [music]
I will also say uh, Tesla has given up
earlier gains and that's due to a report
that Tesla published delivery estimates
for the last quarter that were much
lower than those estimates [music]
compiled by Bloomberg. Meanwhile,
another stock rebounding this morning is
the largest gold miner and that is
Newmont up 1.6% this morning after
falling nearly 6% [music]
yesterday, the most in 10 weeks. The
pullback of course followed gold prices
sliding yesterday amid all that
volatility in the precious metals trade
amid uh, thin trading though with
precious metals up again this morning as
you mentioned earlier, we are seeing
miners like Newmont [music] tracking
those gains. And apparently L.O.L.
Surprise! dolls were not on kids'
Christmas wish list this morning. We are
[music] seeing We saw shares of PopMart
over in Hong Kong fall 4 and 1/2%
[music] the most in 3 weeks on reports
that reseller demand is cooling. That's
a [music] big change from earlier this
year when those dolls were all the crazy
craze selling for hundreds of dollars in
the secondary market. Lisa. Who knew,
Yahaira, that $50 [music] for a little
doll that looked very strange would be
something that would fall out of
fashion. Just saying. [music] I know
that I'm going to get a lot of hate
mail. Meanwhile, on our radar this
morning, President Donald Trump saying
the US has struck a facility inside
Venezuela targeting alleged drug
operations. This marks the first time
the US has admitted to a direct land
strike on Venezuelan soil. Meanwhile, in
the tech merger mania to end the year,
Meta agreeing to buy Singapore-based
startup Manas, marking a rare US
acquisition of an Asian tech company.
The deal values the AI agent at more
than $2 billion with Meta intending to
continue operating and selling the Manas
service. Guy, this to me caught my
attention especially based on what we
saw with Nvidia's acquisition of a lot
of the talent at least of Grok earlier
this month.
Yeah, it felt like the Grok deal kind of
moved the needle. What I'm surprised
about this morning is that we're not
seeing Meta's share price pre-market
moving very much on the back of this.
So, is this a significant deal? I got
Meta down by what? 1/10 of 1% this
morning pre-market, not moving much. So,
what does that tell us about market
thoughts around this? Maybe not very
much. Maybe nobody's at their desk.
Maybe nobody cares. I think there are
some interesting takeaways though. One
of which is that this is effectively a
Chinese company. I know it's based out
of Singapore, but in some ways it has
very strong connections back into China
and I think, Lisa, that is going to be
significant A from a kind of where Meta
goes next or but also how the Chinese
are going to view American AI as well in
terms of how they see their domestic
base developing. It's a great point
especially given that China's clamped
down and so that they want more domestic
production. Is this Meta's backdoor way
of trying to get into China? Will China
allow this deal to go through? It also
raises this question of some of these
cash companies, cash-heavy companies in
the tech space trying to preserve their
dominance into 2026 as competition, as
efficiency becomes more of the story,
how much are these deals coming through
to try to get under the radar in order
to avoid regulatory scrutiny on both the
US side as well as on China?
Does Does it imply that Meta has some
weaknesses somewhere? Does it imply that
that it needs to do more in this
particular space? That it's better to go
out and buy
some some talent maybe to to maybe
correct some of those issues? Or is it
just, you know what? There's an
opportunity there. Let's take it. Let's
just keep spending the money. This is an
insurance policy, isn't it? Basically,
at the moment, the risk that the risk is
greater in not doing anything than doing
something. I.e., if somebody comes up
from from left field or right field and
takes you eats your lunch, that's too
big a risk for these big tech companies
to take at the moment. So, the bigger
risk is not doing anything, so therefore
you do deals like this. Yeah, if you've
got that much cash burning a hole in
your pocket, best to use it. Uh
meanwhile, in other news that we're
watching this morning, President Donald
Trump doubling down on his desire to
oust Fed Chair J. Powell.
Will you ask J. Powell to resign from
the board entirely?
>> a favor to the nation. But, he's come
close. I mean, we're getting pretty
close. I would fire him.
I would I'd love to fire him, but we're
so close, you know, maybe it But, maybe
I still might. President Donald Trump
adding his preferred candidate hasn't
changed. Sticking with the Fed, our
colleagues Anne Marie Hordern and David
Gura spoke with Trump-appointed Fed
Governor Stephen Myron in last week,
who's planning to remain at the Central
Bank beyond the expiration of his term
until whoever President Donald Trump
nominates as the next Fed Chair is
confirmed by the Senate. Take a listen
to what he had to say.
You nodded to the fact that
uh recessions are inevitable. Fed's job
is going to forestall them as much as as
they can. Policy makers' jobs are that.
I'm I'm very curious when you look at
the labor market in particular, the rise
that we've seen in the unemployment
rate. That's kind of rise we've seen
customarily before recessions. How do
you assess the the risk of there being a
recession here in the near term when you
look at the labor market for instance?
So, I don't see a recession in the near
term in part because we are adjusting
our policy rate uh by lowering it, which
is appropriate. Uh you know, my view, as
I've as I've described, is that a
variety of shocks that hit the economy,
you know, including changes to the
population growth rate due to changes in
the border policy, have pushed what we
call the neutral rate down, and that
policy needs to adjust downward to
reflect that downward shift in neutral.
If we don't adjust policy down, then I
think that we do run risks of rising
recession of rising recessions. I don't
think it's too late to prevent that, and
so I think it's important that we keep
on adjusting our policy rate down. But,
at the moment, it's not my base case in
part because I think that we ultimately
will end up adjust continuing to adjust
interest rates down. Want to ask you
about the utility of the Myron dissent.
So, we had the
uh the Fed Chair asked that press
conference about the increasing
confractured nature of the Fed
Committee. We've talked about quiet
dissents as well. Um what are you
achieving or So, what's the reaction
been to you dissenting as you have been
kind of in the conversation among the
the committee? Yeah, so, look, I mean,
there's not really any strategy here.
I'm just transparent and say what I
think and always have, and that gets me
in a lot of trouble. And uh But, does it
or is it a constructive? So, when you
when you dissent in the way in which you
do, does is it a constructive dissent?
Do you find that others are willing to
engage with you and your perspective on
inflation for instance? Yeah, well, my
perspective on inflation is is is, you
know, look, in my first speech, I talked
about inflation a little bit, but I I
mostly was focused on on neutral. Uh my
speech last week, I really drew out a
lot about my outlook for inflation that
was sort of implicit in the first speech
and sort of just cursorily uh cursorily
cursorily treated, and I really drew
that out. So, my views on inflation
haven't been out there fully fleshed out
for the committee for so long, and now
we're running into holiday season, but I
have found that people are that people
are constructive. They want to discuss
these things, and I think that's
important. And, you know, look, one
positive benefit of me potentially
dissenting like this is that it
introduces a more a wider variety of of
of views. I think it's really really
important to avoid groupthink. I think
if you if you fall into groupthink, you
stop questioning where you could be
wrong, and then it just becomes much
easier to be a complacent consensus that
is in error. I think we've seen that
over and over this year, for example, on
tariffs.
Let's talk potentially about tariffs.
The president is pushing for this $2,000
tariff dividend. Uh the Treasury
Secretary is talking about these tax
refunds starting in 2026. Is there a
potential that more money in consumers'
pockets could goose inflation? Yeah, so,
there is a potential for some of these
factors to boost economic growth. With
respect to sort of tax refunds, you
know, I think that Sorry, with respect
to tariff refunds, I think we need to
sort of wait and see what the policy
looks like before getting into uh
analyzing its consequences if there does
end up being a policy. With respect to
tax refunds that are results of the
already legislated uh tax bill, the one
big beautiful bill act from last year,
those are already baked into the
forecast, and they will provide a little
bit of demand stimulus, but there's so
much other stuff going on as a result of
policy in OBBB, in deregulation, in
other things that are going on in
economic policy that ultimately push out
the supply side of the economy, too. And
my view is that if you push out the
demand side while you're putting the
brakes on the supply side, you get
inflation. If you push out supply and
demand at the same time, it doesn't
really have an effect on prices. But, do
you think it was a mistake that when we
had into the Biden administration, the
American Rescue Plan, Inflation
Reduction Act, sending out checks to
American consumers? Was that an error?
Well, it's not appropriate for uh you
know, for a member of the Federal
Reserve to be described as being an
error or not, but I do think that if you
if you hit if you hit the gas on demand
while you're hitting the brakes on
supply at the same time, it will result
in higher prices. That is that is that
is an economic Would $2,000 checks do a
similar reaction as we saw in
by the other checks during the American
Rescue Plan? Well, it depends what's
happening on the supply So, two things
matter. One is the state of the demand
uh state of aggregate demand
outside of those checks. And if you go
back several years, the economy was
recovering on its own from from COVID,
right? It was COVID was not like, you
know, the great the financial crisis,
which had lingering deleveraging effects
for a decade plus, which meant the
demand was perpet- was persistently
depressed. After COVID, you know, we
started getting vaccines, we started
getting antivirals, places started
opening back up, the economy started
returning to normal on its own, and so
demand was growing quite healthily, and
jobs numbers were beating every month.
And so, throwing more economic support
on top of that wound up sort of pushing
a an already expanding demand side to
expand even further. Right now, you see
the unemployment rate is tilting up on
its own, right? So, demand is in a
separate is is in a very different place
than it was in 2021, but so is supply,
right? And I think that if you're taking
policy steps that are going to push out
supply or supply is moving out for
reasons other than policy, for instance,
AI, uh which I find difficult to
quantify, but a lot of people put a lot
of put a lot of faith in, if supply is
moving out for whatever reasons, it can
accommodate increasing demand, and so
the effect on prices could be very
different.
>> How are you thinking about the next
meeting cuz it could potentially be your
last? Do you plan on dissenting in favor
of 50 basis point cut again? Look, I
plan on I plan on pushing for the policy
that I think is appropriate at the time.
I will say when I got to the Fed, we
hadn't cut rates at all this year, and
so it was very important for us to move
rates down quickly. Since then, we've
pushed rates down three times, 75 basis
points of cuts to the to the policy
rate. So, the need for me to dissent for
50 becomes a little bit less as we come
down. I haven't yet decided whether I'm
going to push for 25 or 50 next meeting.
I think it depends on on on a variety of
factors. So, I could see voting for 25,
but I do think it's important that we
continue steadily reducing the policy
rate. That was Fed Governor Stephen
Myron speaking with my colleagues last
week at a wonderful interview laying out
why Fed Governor Stephen Myron would
like to cut rates aggressively and
steadily. Right now, you have about a
16% chance of a Fed rate cut priced in
for the January 28th meeting. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg Brief with Lizzie Burden.
Lizzie.
Hi, Lisa. [music] President Trump is
threatening to strike Iran again if the
country rebuilds its nuclear
capabilities. [music]
Speaking as he met with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Donald
Trump expressed concern that Iran is
seeking to revive its nuclear [music]
program. President Trump also said that
he would support Israel in striking Iran
if
>> [music]
>> it continued with its ballistic missile
program. And China is continuing to
stage large-scale military drills around
Taiwan. This morning, it fired dozens of
rockets into waters near Taiwan. China's
[music] latest exercises come as
President Xi Jinping ramps up military
and diplomatic pressure on self-ruled
[music] Taiwan. President Trump trying
to downplay China's actions saying that
they're a continuation of long-standing
[music] military exercises.
And OPEC Plus is expected to confirm a
planned output pause this weekend. Key
members of the group will hold a monthly
video conference on Sunday and review
the decision [music]
that was first made in November.
According to three delegates, the
coalition will stand by its decision as
global oil supply builds. [music] And
that should be my brief, Lisa. Thank you
so much, Lizzie. And oil prices are just
slightly higher [music] this morning
after one of the worst years going back
to the pandemic. Up next, looking for
economic clarity.
If you think about the economy the past
few years, there's certainly been
bipolar get it as has the market. It's
hard to figure out what's going on uh in
the near term. Posas Hunter of Economist
Intelligence joins us next to try to
give her view of what's going on in the
economy. From New York, this is
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> After a blockbuster year failing to get
that year-end
year-end Santa Claus pop that we
normally get, right now you are seeing
soggy futures down about a tenth of a
percent across the board after already
seeing about 17% gains so far this year.
Not to say it's been a bad year by any
means. You are seeing a bit of a dip in
bonds, prices down, yields up. You are
seeing 4.11 on the 10-year. Silver
rebounding after its worst one-day
sell-off going back 5 years, up now
3.8%.
Meanwhile, over in Europe, take a look
at the DAX having its best [music] year
going back to 2019 led by the defense
sector, led by the bank sector seeing
Deutsche Bank up almost 100% this year.
Rheinmetall [music]
in the defense space up 153%.
We all talk about the dynamism of the
United States, but Guy, frankly, this
year, we have seen an outperformance
from European stocks, in particular in
Germany, that we haven't seen in a very
long time.
Absolutely, and this comes as we see a
new government in Berlin that is going
to push spending next year. European
growth is is really based on this idea
that Berlin is going to deliver some
sort of a fiscal push. We've already
seen that coming through into the
defense space, defense stocks doing very
well, but bank stocks, as you mentioned,
also doing well. There's an expectation
that we're going to see infrastructure
spending coming through in Germany.
Germany is absolutely pivotal to the
European growth story next year, but
I'll throw an extra one in for you as
well, Lisa. Take a look at what the
Spanish market has delivered so far this
year, particularly if you're a dollar
investor. If you're a dollar investor,
the Spanish market has delivered 70%
growth this year. You're up 70%. It's
been an incredible performance. The
Spanish economy has massively
outperformed. This morning, you've seen
quite strong inflation data coming
through from Spain. [music] Is that
going to keep the ECB on hold into 2026?
>> Yeah, how much is this revenge of
Southern Europe trying to take the helm
in terms of economic growth? Meanwhile,
focus very much on the United States,
but you do get ADP jobs data coming out
later today, as well as the meeting
minutes from the previous Fed meeting.
Jobless claims tomorrow under
surveillance this morning looking for
economic clarity.
If you think about the economy the past
few years, it has certainly been
bifurcated, as has the market. It's been
narrow both in the economy and the
markets. No one knows exactly what's
going to happen the next 6 months. I
think forecasting is always difficult,
but there certainly is this odd kind of
mix of of policy that is out there, and
I think you can see that through the
Federal Reserve eyes. It's hard to
figure out what's going on in the near
term. Here's the latest. Investors
looking ahead to fresh data in the new
year to get a clear read on the US
economy. Constance Hunter of Economist
Intelligence writing, "The US will face
a bumpy road. If 2026 were a fairy tale,
it would be a mashup of Chicken Little
and Ugly Duckling." To talk about this
story, to Constance joins us now. Do we
have a sense of how clear the data has
been so far? In other words, have we
gotten any tell from the data in
November and December that has been
muddied by the government shutdown?
We've gotten very little data that's
showed the impact of the government
shutdown. Uh the first piece of data
would be the jobs data that we received
earlier this month. Um and of course,
that shows that the number of people who
took the um early retirement packages
that came into effect in October, but of
course, we know that the October
collection for both jobs uh and um
and CPI had flaws. So, there's not a lot
there. Um and honestly, I don't think
that matters that much. What matters is
how the interplay of the risks and the
tailwinds are going to interplay in
2026.
So, of course, we have tailwinds in the
fact that we have really strong
consumption in the US. The Q3 GDP report
was solid. If you had a smooth road
ahead of you, that would absolutely be
the ugly duckling, right? Where it turns
into a swan and everybody thinks it's
beautiful. But of course, there are
potholes in the road and uh that acorn
that that falls on Chicken Little's head
may in fact mean that there are more
acorns and the sky may fall, right? So,
we have the whole situation with trade.
So, not just that the IEPA tariffs may
be overturned, but the USMCA is up for
renegotiation, and remember these
agreements that have been made are not
trade deals. It takes decades to
negotiate trade deals.
Uh and so, that is there's still a great
deal of uncertainty there. And then of
course, as we've been talking about all
morning is the geopolitical uncertainty,
whether we're talking about the Middle
East, whether we're talking about
China-Taiwan, which is now of course
saber-rattling to send a message to
Japan, whether we talk about China um
making breakthroughs in the Arctic,
whether we're talking about um strikes
against Venezuela. There's a lot of
geopolitical uncertainty on the horizon
as well.
>> So, Constance, this to me, uh there's
the unknown unknown, right, which is the
geopolitics, and then there's the known
unknown, which is whether we see any
kind of resurgence in the labor market
or whether we see a resurgence in
inflation. Which do you think is the
bigger risk? Some sort of resurgence in
inflation or a real substantial
deterioration in the backdrop for the
jobs market?
So, you know, I don't know that they're
mutually exclusive. Um and you know, you
had the Stephen Miron interview playing
earlier, and he talked about um it
depends if you have a surge in demand,
but if you also have a surge in supply.
We don't think there's going to
necessarily be a surge in supply. One of
the really interesting things about the
Q3 GDP GDP report was all of the
corporate profit information that was
contained in there. So, um basically,
the measure that's that's sort of
similar to retained earnings rose 33% um
quarter Q4 Q3 over Q3, so year over year
in the third quarter. Firms retained a
huge amount of earnings, and we we saw
in the data that they didn't hire. They
really slowed hiring. They absorbed some
of the costs of the tariffs. They also
front-loaded those tariffs, right, by
importing at the end of last year and
beginning of this year. And we really
think that that that something has to
give there, right? So,
firms don't keep 33% retained year over
year retained earnings. They invest in
CapEx. They pay them out in the form of
dividends, or they hire more people. Um
we think some combination of those
things will happen in conjunction with
them passing on higher prices. Um in
addition, we're going to get the tax
refunds from the One Big Beautiful Bill
Act. So, the first quarter GDP data and
all of the data leading up to that
release of the first quarter GDP is
going to look fairly strong
after coming off a pretty weak Q4
because of the government shutdown,
right? So, it's it's going to be um a
very confusing data landscape, and I
think people have this idea that the
tariffs are behind us and that the the
could the um
uncertainty from tariffs are behind us.
That is not our view. We think that that
uncertainty is going to prevail next
year. And and again, one of those
signals from that that high retained
earnings shows that firms are are are
paralyzed. They're uncertain. What are
what are they going to do with these
profits? And I think that's the big you
the answer to that question is going to
be the answer to the contour of the
economy.
Okay.
Let's let's break that down a little
bit. Constance, can the Fed continue to
cut with inflation sounding as sticky as
you make it sound?
Um well, it I suppose it could uh
depending upon the makeup of the FOMC.
Is it likely to uh in the first half of
the year? We don't think so. Uh we think
that there will continue to be dissents
uh
um and that the Fed will will hold rates
steady for the first half of the year.
Uh
on the other hand, if we see
deterioration
um as a result of higher tariffs, uh and
if firms' margins compress in the second
half of the year, then we could very
well see two rate cuts in the second
half of the year, especially as the
pass-through from tariffs is likely to
have dissipated by that time. Um but it
it's a big unknown when and how firms
are going to pass on tariff rates. We
also don't know if these tariff rates
are the permanent tariff rates. Uh we
know that the administration likes to
move things around as a matter of
strategy, right? So, um there's a
there's a lot of uncertainty in that
realm. Constance Hunter of Economist
Intelligence, thank you so much for
being with us. And I wonder, Guy
Johnson, from your vantage point over in
Europe, if it's strange to see inflation
where it is in the United States and
discussion about how much the Federal
Reserve can cut rates, and over at the
ECB, you've got a growth rate of about
1% in the region, and they're saying,
"Oh, no, we're worried about getting
inflation too high."
It's an op-ed. I think it's in the
journal today talking about the idea
that if the Fed had the single mandate
that maybe the ECB has, would it be
cutting rates? And I think that's a key
question. This dual mandate, this
confusing dual mandate, how well is it
serving America right now? Is the labor
market the priority, or is inflation in
2026 going to be where the focus should
be? And actually, that may force the Fed
to sit tight and sit out maybe 2026. I
don't know, but that dual mandate
certainly causing some confusion. Well,
yeah, and then there's a question about
Europe, and should they include a dual
mandate a little bit more to try to get
growth up? Coming up next, we're going
to be talking about both sides of this,
as well as the economic outlook forward.
Mark Cabana of Bank of America,
Bloomberg's Kate Sullivan, and Craig
Trudell and Laura May Field of Front
Washington Investment Advisors from New
York and from London. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
There's going to be a meaningful
correction at some point in over the
course of 2026. We want to make sure
we're managing risk well next year. What
the market is saying is that earnings
matter more than ever right now.
>> It is encouraging that we are seeing
broader [music] participation in the
rally. Investors need to be ready for
surprises and the unexpected.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Good morning. [music] Welcome back to
Bloomberg Surveillance. Precious metals
in focus after delivering their best
annual gains [music] since 1979 with
silver and gold on the upswing in
volatile markets. A focus on big tech as
Meta follows Nvidia making acquisitions
in the final days of 2025 to solidify
their AI dominance. And President Trump
keeping his focus on the Federal Reserve
with more harsh words for Chair Powell
in the twilight of his term. Guy Johnson
joining from London. I'm here in New
York. John and Anne Marie are both off
for the holiday. A very quiet period,
Guy. Most people go on vacation, are
enjoying their families. A lot of people
though wondering when they tune back in
to the Bloomberg terminal, why there is
so much volatility in markets,
particularly tied to metals, and whether
there's a tell here that's important.
Uh the metals market's been the story of
2025 in so many ways. What you've seen
in gold, the debasement trade, what then
happened in silver. What's going on
copper is absolutely important right
now. We spent the last hour questioning
our guests about what their inflation
outlook is going to be. Doctor Copper is
telling you maybe what that inflation
outlook is going to be, and it's likely
to be sticky. The metals trade is
telling you that maybe the dollar goes
down in 2026, and that inflation remains
a problem, Lisa.
>> Yeah, this is going to be something
that's going to be a theme, especially
as people increasingly point to this
[music] question of US exceptionalism,
and whether we really saw some sort of
waning in that in terms of the
underperformance of US equity markets in
2025.
In the meantime, coming up this week, we
do have a number of economic indicators.
It is a week
sort of light week for all of these
types of things, but we do get ADP labor
market statistics later this morning.
Fed meeting minutes at 2:00 p.m. this
afternoon Eastern time. On Wednesday, we
get jobless claims, and then of course
on Thursday, markets are closed for New
Year's Day. Right now, not seeing the
Santa Claus rally. We just had two days
of declines. We're building on that,
although almost flat now on S&P futures.
[music] Nasdaq futures the same, and
Russell 2000 the outperformance. A
question of how much the rotation trade
can really gain steam, especially
without participation in twos, tens, and
30s in the bond space. You are not
seeing [music] that sort of a
rip-roaring rally that you saw during
parts of this year. Although still a
very quiet finish to [music] the year.
We are seeing 3 and 1/2%, 3.46%
on the two-year, and 4.8% on the
30-year. The yield curve [music]
steepening. And then, as we were just
talking about in the metal space, you
are seeing silver and gold rebound.
Yesterday, we saw the biggest one-day
sell-off in silver going back to 2020.
[music]
Nonetheless, just to point out, silver
and gold have had their best years going
back to 1979. Copper on track for its
best year going back [music] to 2017.
Coming up this hour, Mark Cabana of Bank
of America as investors eye the latest
Fed minutes. Bloomberg's Katie Greifeld
as the US ramps up attacks on Venezuela.
And Laura Mayfield of Fort Washington
Investment Advisers. As AI hyperscalers
push debt issuance to record levels. We
begin this hour with stocks hovering
near all-time highs trying to reprice
some sort of rally as President Trump
renews his attacks on Federal Reserve
Chair Jay Powell.
Will you ask Jay Powell to resign from
the board and retire? It'd be a favor to
the nation, but he's come close. I mean,
we're getting pretty close. I would fire
him.
I would I'd love to fire him, but we're
so close, you know, maybe it
maybe I still might. The president
saying he has a preferred Fed chair
candidate, but is in no hurry to make an
announcement. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now from Washington. Tyler,
it's the story that won't go away. The
who done it that has to do with the Fed
chair and whether they're going to
announce the new candidate anytime soon.
Was there any new daylight shed on this
issue from President Trump's comments
yesterday?
Yeah, hey Lisa, good morning. Well, when
it comes to President Trump talking
about his favorite to lead the Federal
Reserve, he did say that he will
announce him when the time is right. In
his own words, though, went on to
indicate that we can expect a decision
within the next month. It comes as the
White House is continuing interviews for
the position. Bloomberg News has
confirmed that President Trump will meet
privately at Mar-a-Lago with BlackRock's
Rick Reeder
as we zero in on the top four
candidates. Our reporting indicates that
includes Reeder alongside current Fed
Governor Christopher Waller, who
interviewed with President Trump earlier
this month. And then, of course, former
Fed Governor Kevin Warsh and the NEC
Director Kevin Hassett. Now, President
Trump has sometimes made contradictory
remarks when it comes to his process in
finding the next Fed chair, but the one
consistency has been his criticism of
the current Fed chair. And as you heard,
he renewed his attacks against Jerome
Powell yesterday, going as far as to
re-threaten a potential lawsuit over the
Fed's renovations of the headquarters
here in Washington. And then, really
turning to tout his own economic
policies. And he had this particular
emphasis when it comes to growth. Now,
the shutdown is expected to weigh on
fourth-quarter GDP, but economists do
forecast a modest rebound in 2026. And I
bring that up because the backdrop to
today and this conversation is that we
are going to get those minutes from the
December meeting. And while it didn't
appear that policymakers were expecting
such a burst in the third-quarter GDP
number released after the December
meeting, enough of them did revise up
their growth forecast for next year. So,
Lisa, as we're waiting through the
minutes, we're going to be looking for
clues as to what's informing their
outlook regarding the AI boom, expected
stimulus from the one big beautiful
bill, despite what has been a weakening
in consumer sentiment. And that is
really the underlying theme to this
entire conversation, because that is the
push and pull that this White House has
been trying to navigate.
>> Yeah, and what is the Fed's reaction
function? Tyler Kendall, thank you so
much. Well framed, as always. Mark
Cabana of Bank of America joins us now
for more. Mark, I am curious from your
vantage point, and good morning, how
relevant you find all these comments
jobbing the Federal Reserve. What's your
takeaway when you hear President Trump
continue to talk and and really bash Fed
Chair Jerome Powell?
Well, good morning. Happy New Year. Hope
you had a nice holiday with you and your
family. Um
so, our our take is that we've heard
this so many times before. And what
we're really interested in is who is the
individual going to be, what is their
preference on policy broadly, and then
will there be any further turnover or
change within the Federal Reserve. Uh it
is a committee. Uh we do know that it
takes a number of individuals to move
the needle on Fed policy and impact
interest rates. And we're really trying
to figure out who that's going to be,
what their preferences are, and how does
the committee composition change. So,
we, just like the rest of the market,
are waiting for guidance on this. And we
do think it'll come relatively soon. As
you know, at the end of January, that's
when Steven Mnuchin's term ends. He can
stay on, but we do expect that as his
term comes to a close, we will get the
nomination for the next Fed chair. If it
is an outsider, i.e. not Bowman or
Waller, then they're going to likely
want to be confirmed by the end of
January.
And then, they will join the committee
serving in a bit of a shadow Fed chair
capacity. And we're going to learn a
little bit more about what their
preferences are on rates and what that
means for the general outlook for policy
in the near future.
Mark, good morning. It's Guy. Is it
important
if Powell, when he steps down, leaves
entirely in in entirely, or continues to
to retain a seat? Is that going to be
important, and how pivotal could it be?
Yeah, it does matter a lot, because it
influences that composition of the
committee. As you know, it takes seven
voters for any action at the Fed. And if
Powell chooses to stay, which would be
historically unprecedented, then it will
mean that there's probably less
willingness to cut rates aggressively.
If he leaves, it'll give the Trump
administration one more seat in which
they can potentially remake that
committee,
and potentially then advocate for lower
rates. History would suggest that Powell
will step down, but this is indeed his
decision. And if he goes, it's just
going to mean one more vote for
potentially lower rates and a preference
to likely overweight the unemployment
side of the Fed's mandate versus the
inflation side of the Fed's mandate. And
look, when we think about the outlook
for interest rates over the course of
2026, we do think that the Fed
composition is extremely important. And
that's one of the reasons that we do
believe that the distribution of risks
to the rate outlook is skewed to the
downside. We do believe it means likely
lower rates, steeper curve, lower real
rates, higher inflation, lower
volatility, which by the way, I do think
is
quite a story for the end of 2025 that
doesn't get a ton of airplay. But that
low vol environment is so important for
US rates, for US fixed income more
broadly, for elements of the dollar,
elements of the commodities trade and
the gold trade that you were talking
about before.
And that that Fed composition does very
much influence
the outlook for rates and the outlook
for vol. And we do think that that's
going to be a very very relevant theme
as we start 2026.
Mark, I was thinking about this as well
this morning. I the move index that you
guys create has been tracking lower
throughout the back half of the year.
What I don't get is if I have a more
volatile Fed, if I have a more volatile
FOMC, why doesn't that translate into a
more volatile market? Can you explain
that?
Yeah, so the way that we think about it
is that there may be disagreement within
the Fed, but as you get the shift in
composition at the Fed, what it does is
it just narrows the range of potential
rate outcomes. And as you increasingly
staff the Fed with individuals that are
going to be advocating for at worst
rates on hold or potentially lower
rates, what it does is it just further
trims the potential that rates will be
moving higher. And as you narrow the
range of outcomes, that does mean that
vol should be moving lower. And lower
rate vol does touch a wide set of
financial markets, and we do think that
that's going to be a key and and
persistent theme over the first half of
2026. As you get later into 2026, the
range of outcomes widens. There's
midterms to consider, and you know, just
natural uncertainty that can that that
rises with time. But in the first half
of 2026, we do think that vol will
remain low, and that's going to keep
financial conditions quite easy. And
that's going to be generally supportive
for the growth backdrop. As long as you
have a Fed that's not hiking, then
you've got really only, you know, either
stable rates or lower rates to seriously
consider. I can think of all the metals
trader traders out there listening to
this conversation and saying, "But but
but gold, it's telling us something.
What is it telling us?" The idea that
copper has been on a tear, that silver
has been on a tear, that you have seen a
depreciation of the dollar, and frankly
an underperformance of US assets in
relation to some of these precious
metals. Do you think that this is
telling you of some kind of inflationary
impulse that will come out in what we're
seeing with respect to steeper yield
curves and even if it's not volatility
that that will grind wider throughout
the year and potentially put a cap on
some of that risk appetite.
Oh, we do. I mean we look we we think
it's going to be a dynamic that is
characterized by very strong growth, by
inflation, albeit sticky, that generally
gets overlooked in favor of driving a
continued strong labor market and keeps
of all low. All of those things will be
very very supportive of growth and I do
think that metals are very consistent
with that right now. Dr. Copper, as you
mentioned, certainly is telling me that
growth is going to be very strong
globally over the course of 2026.
What we see in gold and silver, there's
no doubt some technicals that are at
play there that drove the very very
sharp spike in silver and then you know,
slight rebound or slight decline that
we've seen over the last few days, but I
do think that there is a bit of a
debasement concern there, i.e. Central
banks, especially the Fed, that may be a
little bit more dismissive of inflation
than they have traditionally been and
that should mean weaker dollar, should
mean lower rates and that again should
be tailwinds broadly for financial
conditions. Um all of this points to a
better growth backdrop, all of this
points to a very supportive backdrop for
activity and continued easing in
financial conditions over the course of
2026, we think. The biggest risk to all
of that is inflation.
Um the biggest risk is that the Fed has
to consider raising rates at some point
over the course of next year. We put
very low probability on that right now.
The market does as well, it seems, but
that would be the biggest shift that
could potentially throw a wrench into
the low vol and easy financial
conditions and high overall base metal
price conditions that we are currently
seeing today. So, next year we're going
to see the one big beautiful bill and
some of the tax cuts that people are
already expecting. We could potentially
see $2,000 checks sent out to different
individuals. There is a concern about
budget deficits, especially if IEPA is
overturned. What happened to bond
vigilantes? Are they asleep? Do they not
exist? Is that going to be a story
that's going to come back in 2026?
Uh it could. Um right now, you're right,
Lisa, that the market is very
unconcerned with that. If you look at
asset swap spreads in addition to vol,
they tell you that uh you know, the bond
vigilante concerns are very very low. We
think that they remain at bay.
And that big part is due to changes that
we are seeing with US Treasury issuance,
changes very technically that are that
the Fed is pursuing in terms of these
reserve management purchases and the
addition of liquidity that we're seeing
to really better anchor repo rates in
the Fed's target range and potentially
uh changes that are happening on the
regulatory front um for banks and as
well as dealers. There's also important
market structure changes um very
technical that I won't go into in great
depth, but you're going to get cross
margining benefits, you're going to get
something called collateral and lou. All
of these things we do think will be
supportive of increasing dealer
intermediation capacity and what that
will mean is that you're just going to
have a better environment for risk
taking in fixed income, especially in
the Treasury market and that should mean
that you don't get these type of bond
vigilante concerns in a big way. It
helps a lot the Treasury is really only
increasing issuance at the very front
end of the curve where duration risk is
very very minimal and what that should
mean is that that will limit those
concerns of bond vigilantes from really
taking off despite all of the headwinds
that you just mentioned.
Mark, can I come at that question from a
different angle? I'm talking a little
about market structure.
There is an increasing
the
more we're seeing the Treasury market
being held increasingly by private
foreign holders, right?
Um and the data look at the ticks data
that supports that. When you get shifts
in sentiment, does that mean that you're
going to see those shifts in sentiment
being amplified because traditional
reserve managers held a kind of more
stable position, private owners don't
and therefore are likely to change
opinions and more dramatically once once
the ground shifts under them. If we do
see some sort of a change in 2026, if
inflation is a problem, does that mean
the magnitude of of that shift is going
to be even greater?
Uh it certainly could. Uh now when we
think about uh ownership of Treasuries,
you rightly highlight that private uh
foreign demand has been remarkably
resilient despite all of the concerns
that were evidenced over the course of
2025. But when we think about private
for pri- private foreign demand, I
really think of it coming through two
different ways. One through, let's say,
the more traditional asset manager or
real money investor and then the second
through a highly levered uh let's say
relative value hedge fund type trade.
In the real money sector, we think that
that money should be pretty stable, that
should be pretty sticky um and that's
largely because when we talk to global
investors, what they frequently
reiterate is just that there's not a lot
of great alternatives in the global
fixed income markets away from US dollar
fixed income. Um and if you want
relatively risk-free assets like you get
in the Treasury market, the size of the
market, the depth of the market is
really unparalleled and so many
investors feel like, well, they might
not want to be in dollars, but they
don't have many other good alternatives,
so they have to remain there.
Now, where we do get a little bit more
concern is when we think about the uh
relative value and highly levered, let's
say, hedge fund positions. Um those
investors are worldwide, but there's a
high concentration of those investors,
especially in the UK and what we do
worry about there is anything that could
potentially trigger elevated volatility
and subsequent deleveraging. Um that
could come from the repo market, it
could come from a very volatile macro
environment and we do worry about the
concentration of ownership there as
potentially exacerbating volatility if
it were to rise meaningfully. Now, we
don't think that'll be the case in the
first half of 2026. We do think that low
vol, uh inflation that's moving
generally lower, a Fed that's at worst
on hold if not cutting will characterize
the market in the first half of 2026,
but that concentration is indeed a risk.
Though these market structure and
regulatory changes should help limit
that risk in the near term. Mark Cabana
Bank of America, wonderful to get your
thoughts. Have a wonderful New Year,
really great to see you. Of Bank of
America, hopefully it will be joining us
in 2026. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Lizzie Burden. Lizzie.
Hi, Lisa. [music] Chinese stocks are on
track for their best year since 2017
with the MSCI China index up nearly 30%
so far this [music] year. It's even on
pace to overtake the S&P 500 by its
widest margin in eight years. The
material sector has led the rally
mirroring a worldwide trend of
record-breaking commodity prices. While
China's utilities and property sectors
underperformed barely seeing any gains
[music] since the year began.
Elsewhere, the controversy over
President Donald Trump's name being
added to the Kennedy Art Center is
continuing. The New York Times reporting
a veteran [music] jazz ensemble and a
New York dance company have canceled
events for New Year's Eve. [music] This
follows the cancellation of an annual
Christmas Eve jazz concert. The Times
reporting that the Kennedy Center
chairman says the artists canceling
[music] shows were quote far left
political activists. And a winter storm
knocked out power to hundreds of
thousands in the northern United States.
[music]
According to the weather prediction
center, a bomb cyclone hit the Great
Lakes region leading to intense winds
and rapidly falling temperatures. The
center saying power outages were caused
by strong winds and freezing [music]
power lines. And that's your brief.
Lisa, thank you so much, Lizzie. Up
next, escalating tensions with
Venezuela.
There was a major explosion in the dock
area where they load the boats up with
drugs.
They load the boats up with drugs, so we
hit all the boats and now we hit the
area. Bloomberg's Kate Sullivan joins us
next as this might be the first time the
US has hit on land in Venezuela. From
New York, this
>> [music]
>> is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
It's supposed [music] to be a very good
time for equity market performance. Over
the last two trading sessions, hasn't
been the case, however, this morning. As
we get closer to the open, erasing
losses from earlier in the session, now
basically flat [music]
on S&P futures. You are seeing a bit of
a sell-off pick up speed in the bond
space. 10-year yields up two basis
points to 4.13%
in crude. Watch this space. Prices up
futures up about a half a percent after
reports that OPEC plus is considering
maintaining some of their output curbs,
not necessarily increasing output at the
same pace due to the glut that a lot of
people are pointing to. Meanwhile, a
focus on the geopolitics of the morning
under surveillance this morning, [music]
escalating tensions with Venezuela.
There was a major explosion in the dock
area where they load the boats up with
drugs.
They load the boats up with drugs, so we
hit all the boats and now we hit the
area. It's the implementation area.
That's where they implement.
And that is no longer
around. Here's the latest. President
Trump telling reporters that the US hit
a facility in Venezuela marking the
first known land strike since the White
House began its pressure campaign
against President Maduro's government.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's Kate
Sullivan. Kate, thank you so much for
being with us. What do we know about
this latest strike?
Well, I think it's notable just how few
details we have about this strike, you
know, beyond what the president
confirmed himself or disclosed himself
to reporters. He talked about this first
in a radio interview and then was asked
several questions about it yesterday
when he was meeting with Prime Minister
Netanyahu and he really didn't go
beyond, you know, what what you heard
there in that clip. Um but it's
extremely notable given, you know, this
appears to be the first disclosed or
known land strike on Venezuela. This is
something that the president has been
previewing for quite some time now, so
it doesn't come as a complete surprise,
but I think there were questions about
whether this was just going to be
posturing, you know, when the president
was talking about carrying out these
land strikes on Venezuela. Um it's of
course part of a larger pressure
campaign um on Maduro on the Maduro
regime in Venezuela, you know, the
United States has been really
significantly building up its naval
capabilities in the region. It's been
seizing oil tankers and then of course
carrying out those uh strikes on boats
that they say are smuggling drugs, you
know, and more than 100 people have been
killed in those strikes and there are a
lot of questions uh about the legality
of those strikes and critics say there
is no legal basis. So, uh given the the
developments and what we heard from the
president yesterday, you know, I would
expect uh a lot more pressure to
uh on the administration, on the White
House to really just disclose more
details about who exactly carried out
the strike and just just more details
around that operation and what the goals
were.
Okay, good morning, it's Guy. How much
further could the White House go without
having to go to Congress and get some
sort of a green light?
Yeah, I I mean, I think that is the big
question, right? I think there uh a lot
of lawmakers have been putting a a lot
of pressure on the White House to really
just keep them more in the loop, you
know, that again, there are a lot of
questions about the legality here. Uh
the White House has really staunchly
defended its actions. It says that it
is, you know, combating drug trafficking
and has really, you know, uh just just
said that they have a lot of authority
to do what they're doing here. Uh so,
it's it's a it's a great question. I'm
I'm I know a lot of people are very
curious to see just how far this goes,
whether there are more land strikes that
take place. Uh but it seems to be, you
know, uh that there will be more strikes
on uh boat or there there's no letting
up of these strikes on these boats that
they say are smuggling drugs and so it's
a great question how far this is going
to go and what is actually going to
happen to Maduro and and his regime.
Kate Sullivan, thank you so much as
always for joining us and for that
insight. Coming up, Bloomberg's Cristina
Aquino as silver and gold find their
footing [music] after yesterday's
sell-off, a massive year for the
precious metals so far. Plus, Yahaira on
Ind with your morning movers. Tesla
shares in focus after lowering
expectations. [music] This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
The Santa Claus rally begins [music]
December 24th and ends on January 5th
and 80% of the time going back to the
1950s, [music]
you have seen a gain. Right now, not
necessarily keeping up with that
promise. You are seeing essentially flat
futures on S&P and Nasdaq and Russell,
you are seeing that lift. A question
about the rotation up to tenths of a
percent. You are seeing just a touch of
a sell-off in the bond space. Two cents
and 30s yield higher, but just uh
marginally, not a lot of action ahead of
a slew of data to end the year. The
30-year most notable up now three basis
points [music] to 4.83%
as people wonder about inflation. Take a
look at what could be fueling that,
which is in the metal space. What you
see in gold, silver and copper. Gains
across the board after a banner year for
all of these metals. Copper [music] is
having its best year going back to 2017
up some 40%. Longest winning streak
going back or the best [music] winning
streaks going back to 2009, the longest
winning streak going back to 2017. Gold
and silver, their best years going back
to 1979. Two hours away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers with
Yahaira on Ind. Yahaira. Hi Lisa. We are
seeing Tesla shares in the green this
morning after falling more than 3%
yesterday on news that a [music] key
supplier cut its battery contract with
the EV maker. Still, the stock has given
up its earlier gains as investors
[music] look at new delivery estimates
posted on its website, which show
deliveries for this quarter are [music]
lower than the numbers that Bloomberg
has compiled. Meanwhile, quantum stocks
have had quite the ride this year
[music] and it's no different in these
last trading sessions of the year. They
sold off last week, but are all in the
green this morning after a roller
coaster ride. [music] Remember back in
January, Jensen Huang warned that useful
quantum computers wouldn't be [music]
wouldn't be uh wouldn't be were decades
away, then surging in June when he
changed his mind and then you had uh
reports that the Trump administration
was considering [music] taking equity
stakes in these in these companies. So,
one to watch definitely in 2026. [music]
And we end on Applied Digital. This is a
data center cloud company. Shares are up
1 and 3/4% [music]
on news that it's spinning out its cloud
computing unit and merging it with
another company in an effort to
streamline its
>> [music]
>> its um
AI critical businesses. Investors have
loved the stock. Shares are up [music]
200% more than 200% year to date. Lisa.
Thank you so much, Yahaira. On our radar
this morning, Ukraine denying an alleged
attack on a residence of Russian leader
Vladimir Putin. President Trump
addressing the allegation yesterday.
It's one thing to be offensive
because they were offensive. It's
another thing to attack his house.
It's not the right time to do any of
that
and can do it. And I learned about it
from President Putin that I was very
angry about. The Russian foreign
minister alleges that Kyiv launched a
drone attack on Putin's state residence
on December 29th, offering no evidence
to support the accusation. Meanwhile,
President Trump teasing that he has a
preferred candidate for the next Federal
Reserve chair, but is in no hurry to
make an announcement.
You've said that you have one favorite,
but you're also doing interviews.
>> do. Hasn't changed. Yeah, I'll announce
him at the right time. There's plenty of
time. The president also saying he may
bring a lawsuit against current Fed
chair Jay Powell for gross incompetence
over renovation costs at the Federal
Reserve. Meanwhile, China is reportedly
requiring chip makers to use at least
50% domestically made equipment for
adding new capacity. According to a
Reuters exclusive, the rule is not
public, but chip makers are being told
that they must prove that at least half
of their equipment will be Chinese made.
It comes after a lot of speculation
about how much US chip makers are really
going to be allowed into China as a very
nationalistic push happens there. Guy,
how important is it to really see things
like this in addition to Meta's recent
acquisition of Manas? This question of
if you sell it, will they come? If the
US can sell some of these chips, will
China buy them?
Uh the answer appears to be well,
probably no at this point, doesn't it? I
it's it's really interesting that Nvidia
keeps trying to push for the idea that
maybe it should be able to sell chips
into China, trying to get the White
House maybe to give it the green light
and it appears to be making progress on
that front. But the Chinese are the
problem here. I it it's fascinating.
Jensen Huang's biggest problem is not
the White House, it's what's happening
in Beijing. The Chinese clearly feel
that they have to catch up. They clearly
feel that this is an area that they have
to make progress in. It's just
interesting in terms of the imbalances
that exist within this space. The US has
the chips, but maybe doesn't have the
electrons, the power. The Chinese have
the power, but don't necessarily have
the chips. Kind of how does that even
out and and what will that race look
like in 2026? The Chinese desperate to
catch up on the chip front. That feels
like it could be something that you
could do faster than maybe catching up
on the electricity front, which maybe
gives the Chinese the advantage at this
point.
>> Well, right now, the advantage really
goes to metals because that has been the
one area as everyone tries to build out
the physical world. It continues to get
bid. Silver meanwhile recovering some
losses after its biggest one-day drop in
more than five years. Supply shortages
keeping the metal on track for a monthly
gain of close to a third. Bloomberg's
Cristina Aquino joins us now for more.
Christine, before we get into the bigger
trends, uh just can you talk a little
bit about how much leverage, how much uh
sort of fast money is behind some of the
pretty violent moves that we've seen
over the past couple of weeks? Uh well,
Lisa, the short answer is a lot. Uh
there's been a lot of speculation in
this market, especially as investors
started to observe that silver very much
extending the gains that initially were
rooted in gold, right? And you know,
initially this was kind of a higher beta
play, right? Silver usually seen as a
higher beta version of gold. And so,
when gold started rallying, investors
started wondering, where else can I put
this momentum behind? And silver became
the focal point. But of course, very
interesting because silver very much a
precious metal, but it also has very
important industrial functions, right?
And so, we've really seen that
speculation ramp up. We've seen, you
know, exchanges now having to raise
their margins. China's silver play fund
uh pure silver play fund turning away
new investors. These are just some
examples of uh just a measures that uh
authorities and and bodies have taken uh
to really curb the speculation that has
ramped up so much uh in the last month
or so as silver really turn into very
much from a precious metal play a haven
play to a speculative play and that's
what we're seeing now.
Christie, once silver takes over, once
the kind of the gold silver ratio
shifts,
what does that tell us? What does
history tell us about how much longer
the precious metal rally has to run?
Well, Guy, you know, it's very
interesting because it really is just
boiling down to supply, right? I mean,
you know, I think that ratio very much a
signal for some investors. And again,
you know, what we've seen a gold
rallying and then silver taking that
rally and then extending it so much
more. And and that is very much a result
of that shift in the ratio that you're
mentioning, the gold silver ratio. It
has a really held above 100 to 1 for
very long and and so that I think
signaled the shift for a lot of
investors. But how much longer it can
run really just boils down to how much
silver is there left to buy? And at the
moment there is a critical shortage of
the metal. And this is why we're seeing
a lot of these restrictions, a lot of
these curbs. And that's not necessarily
going to alleviate heading into 2026. We
have potential tighter exports coming
from China. China's not a major exporter
of silver, but you know, that just
really shrinks further shrinks the pool
of available silver to buy. And then of
course, a lot of overall silver actually
still stuck in US warehouses as
investors await the result of the US
section 232 probe into critical
minerals. And so not necessarily a lot
of clarity on that front. And so really
it's just going to be a question of
supply when it comes to how much further
this rally goes. If there's not much
clarity on supply alleviating anytime
soon,
then you know, this market is going to
be very very tight for the foreseeable
future. Bloomberg's Kristina Keta,
wonderful reporting. Thank you so much
for being with us. Let's turn to autos,
another once demand supply at least for
some of these metals. Tesla lowering
expectations for its annual vehicle
sales. The EV maker posting a
compilation of analyst estimates below
averages gathered by Bloomberg. Craig
Trudell joins us now. A wonderful
reporting, Craig. Just can you lay out
how much of a disappointment some of
these projections really are for Tesla?
Yeah, I think, you know, just starting
off with the fourth quarter, you have
the this company compiled consensus as
they call it. You know, round numbers
looking around 423,000 vehicles. That's
a pretty substantial difference between,
you know, what what Bloomberg
Bloomberg's average estimates are.
That's around 445,000. So it's about a
22,000 vehicles shortfall.
I I think, you know, going forward,
what's interesting is also not a whole
lot of optimism about the outlook for
2026. And we've seen consensus come down
for for next year pretty substantially
as well over the last couple of years
where, you know, the expectations for
the company was you know,
on on this time frame to be selling, you
know, 3 3 and 1/2 million vehicles. And
we're we're now sort of seeing, you
know, those estimates come down to, you
know, yes, higher than what we will
probably end up seeing for 2025, but not
substantially so and and sort of a
continued rut for this company that was
once growing really like gangbusters
year after year.
Craig, does it matter?
Honestly, does it matter? If you're a
shareholder in in Tesla, does this
matter?
You know, lately the answer to that has
been no. And I think what's really
fascinating here is that you seem to
have this, you know, coalescing
consensus around two ideas that seem to
be very much in conflict with one
another. On one hand, an expectation
that this company is on the verge of,
you know,   solving
self-driving and, you know, rendering
its vehicles capable of turning into
robo-taxis. And yet on the other hand,
not a substantial change in in the sort
of sales outlook for this company. You
would think that if there's so much
optimism about this this company's
autonomy prospects that you would see
that, you know, sort of translate into,
oh my gosh, demand is going to to shoot
up. And yet we're not seeing those, you
know, move in unison with one another.
Craig, do we have a sense of why Tesla
has seen its fortunes kind of shift when
it comes to the actual number of cars
that it expects to sell? Is it because
of some of the political issues around
Elon Musk? Is it because of China demand
competition domestically there? Or is it
because of the subsidies in the United
States, the lack of them, and the fact
that people are moving away from
electric vehicles here?
Yeah, I I mean, I would say all the
above to some degree. I think
particularly over here in in Europe,
you've seen continued, you know,
substantial weakness. Think a lot of
that has to do with Elon Musk being
something of a turnoff. I think it also
has to do with, you know, rising
competition with,
you know, the sort of
incumbents and also the the Chinese
manufacturers really getting some
traction across Europe. In China, you
you see the domestic players really,
you know, kind of taking that market and
running with it. Whereas, you know,
Tesla at best has been sort of stable.
And in the US, you have,
you know, to Tesla's credit, they had a
great third quarter in part because of
the rush to take advantage of those tax
credits you mentioned. But we now are in
a paradigm where those have, you know,
fallen by the wayside. The Trump
administration not only has taken those
away, but taken away,
you know, fuel economy regulations and
emissions rules. So you know, this is an
industry that is kind of, you know,
turning back the clock and and going
back to selling as many big pickups and
full-size SUVs as they possibly can. And
they're doing that without, you know,
sort of any abandon. They're not having
to worry about buying regulatory credits
from from Tesla. So you have not only
headwinds for the the company from a
vehicle sales perspective, but also
a part of its business that it's counted
on for substantial revenue for many
years. Craig Trudell, thank you so much
for joining us and for all the reporting
throughout this year. Craig joining us
there of Bloomberg News. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
Bloomberg Brief with Lizzie Burden.
Lizzie.
Hi, Lisa. Copper is heading for a 10th
day of gains on its longest winning
streak since 2017. [music]
The surge is adding to the metal's
biggest annual climb since 2009.
Bulls say tariffs, a weaker dollar, and
supply issues are all helping to drive
up prices for the commodity. [music]
Elsewhere, Meta is agreeing to buy Mana,
a Singapore-based artificial
intelligence agent to build a business
around its AI investment.
>> [music]
>> The deal values Mana at more than $2 and
marks a rare US acquisition of a Asian
tech company. Meta is intending [music]
to continue operating and selling the
Mana service. And shares of PopMart
falling the most in 3 weeks on falling
demand for LaBooBoo dolls.
>> [music]
>> The sell-off stemming from reports that
scalpers have paused buying the toys.
PopMart had staged a dramatic market
rally, but has since cooled on weaker
than expected holiday season sales
[music] and doubts about the company's
brand. I'm sure none of those were in
your stocking this Christmas, Lisa. That
should be my brief. Thank you so much,
Lizzie. I have to admit, [music] not so
much. No, maybe it's boys versus girls,
but I don't know. Nonetheless, up next,
hiding out in high quality.
You don't have to be cute with these
markets. You can kind of just hide out
in the high quality space for now and
then wait for these opportunities to
develop out the credit risk spectrum.
Laura Mayfield of Fort Washington
Investment Advisors joins us now. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Trying to break a streak of 2 days of
losses. We are seeing futures churning
ahead of the open in this penultimate
day of 2025, basically flat on the S&P
and Nasdaq. Russell 2000 doing better,
outperforming with 2/10 of a percent
gain with a question about the Federal
Reserve, with a question about
inflation, with a question about
accommodation. 2s, 10s, and 30s not
really doing that much. On the front
end, we've been pegged to that 3.46%
[music] level. We are just a basis point
this morning. On the long end though,
the sell-off gaining steam this morning.
30-year yields up 3 basis points [music]
to 4.82%.
The real story, the fireworks, has been
in the metal space. We have seen copper.
We have [music] seen silver. We have
seen gold with an incredible
outperformance so far this year. A big
bout of volatility yesterday,
particularly with silver selling off the
most in 5 years. Today, climbing that
back up more than 5%.
>> [music]
>> Silver and gold posting their best years
going back to 1979. A question about the
year ahead for fixed income under
surveillance this morning. Hiding out in
high quality.
We think that, you know, some of those
deals, those AI data center deals, you
know, they've come out. We haven't
invested in them
because you just don't get the upside
like you do on the equity side of
things. We're bond investors. We're
trying to get back par on our
investments. And if you're getting these
deals coming at 200 or 225, it doesn't
make as much sense. There's still plenty
of other faces places to find value. And
spreads are still at the kind of wider
end of the last decade there. So you you
don't have to you don't have to be cute
with these markets. You can kind of just
hide out in the high quality space for
now and then wait for these
opportunities to develop out the credit
risk spectrum. Here's the latest. Big
tech issuing a record amount of debt to
make costly AI demands. Laura Mayfield,
vice president and senior portfolio
manager at Fort Washington Investment
Advisors writing, "Hyperscalers are
investing heavily in AI today, but their
revenue sources are broad-based and
their viability doesn't hinge on any
single AI outcome." Laura joins us now.
Laura, wonderful to see you. Thank you
for being here in the flesh. Um
one question here is can you get behind
some of this issuance because even if
they have the revenues, they're levering
up at a time of some speculation about
the cash needs and frankly, the end use
case. Yeah, it's a great question and I
think there is valid concern about the
the monetization of those investments,
the volume, the sheer volume of that
investment. But ultimately, these are
very broad-based
these companies have very broad sources
of revenue. We analyze them as we would
any other corporate credit. Um leverage
is modest and manageable, debt service
coverage as well. So, you know, unlike
on the equity side where you have to be
correct not just about the trajectory of
this investment playing out, but also
the timing of it. I think we're much
more comfortable on the corporate credit
side with these very high-quality
issuers.
>> It raises an issue though of the change
in composition of the overall investment
grade debt market. You've seen a record
some 66 billion or significant amount of
issuance from these tech companies. The
AI-related IG issuance so far this year,
this according to Torsten Slok has
jumped from 70% in 2024 to 14% in 2025.
Does that make you
think again about the concentration risk
of the investment grade index? It
definitely does and not just the
concentration risk within investment
grade corporate credit, but more broadly
across the economy as a whole. We know
that so much of the equity market growth
has also been driven by this investment
in AI and data center infrastructure
development. We know that that in turn
has been driving some of the consumer
spending. The higher income cohorts that
have seen their wealth portfolios grow
with this market growth. All of that
hinges back to this strength of AI and
the heavy investment in AI
infrastructure development and data
center buildout and so forth. So, I do
think it is concerning. We have a lot of
eggs in the same basket here.
Laura, good morning. It's Guy in London.
Um
do you think given the scale of the
issuance that we are going to see that
yields will remain higher?
Uh I think, you know, there are concerns
around the demand for the ability of the
market to absorb the increased supply.
Um I think that we could see spreads
under pressure a bit. I think, you know,
we don't have an outlook for a
fundamental
a recession per se, but I do think the
increase in supply and the amount of
demand that has to be created to absorb
that supply specifically around AI and
data center investment. I think we could
see spreads come under pressure. Um so,
I think that, you know, all-in yields
could be this could be a bit
inflationary. Um
as far as, you know, driving prices and
pressuring prices.
Yeah.
How careful are you being? Like, what's
the difference between Oracle and
Amazon? What's the difference between
Oracle and Alphabet? How careful do I
need to be in terms of which corporates
I'm looking at?
I think it makes a big difference. Um
you know, you're talking as far as
leverage, as far as credit quality, um
diversification of revenue sources. I
think, you know, we're being very
particular in terms of how we
participate in the hyperscaler credit
specifically. That's a much different
risk profile than in some of these
asset-specific
um deals in the securitization market,
for example, where your outcome and your
credit risk is hinging on the success of
one particular asset. That's a very
different risk profile. Um similar with
the equity side. I think, you know,
we're very comfortable at the corporate
credit level. These are very
high-quality double-A rated companies um
that are investing in this next leg of
of of um
IT progress. And I think that there's a
very valid a very valid case for that.
Um but on the equity side again, you
have to be much more careful and much
more certain about not just the
trajectory, but the timing of
monetization of those investments. So,
earlier this year, Google sold some $25
billion of corporate bonds including a
50-year tranche. And we were wondering,
who's going to buy a 50-year batch of
bonds from Alphabet which has had a
changed business model. Yes, it's been a
a sticky company and has a huge revenue
stream. You might have been one of those
buyers. Is that right? Yes, we've been
favorable on some of those longer
duration issues from the very
high-quality hyperscalers. We have long
duration needs across some of our
portfolios and with valuations being
very tight, we're underweight, but we
like that high-quality supply for some
of those longer duration needs that we
have to fill. How much just going
forward and stepping back aside from
just the AI story, do you see disruption
in the market, in the economy that will
cause an acceleration of bankruptcies
akin to what we have seen over the past
year frankly, although stealthily? Do
you think that's going to pick up even
without a turn in the economic cycle?
I think there is risk of that and, you
know, one thing working in our favor
right now, I think is actually the
limitation of power availability. I
think that's providing a bit of a
governor on our ability to overbuild. Um
but I do think there are risks. There's
so much capital going into these um
infrastructure uh developments and some
of it is being funded privately, so we
don't even have, you know, the the
entire market is exposed to that, but we
don't all have the transparency to see
how those assets are performing. So, I
think there is risk that we get out of
over our skis a bit um and some, you
know, Steve Eisman likens it to the
buildout of the railroad industry where
you had um you know, in some cases
developers building out railroad
infrastructure side by side in
competition. Some failed and some
succeeded and I think we could see some
of that. So, I think the question is,
you know, with the entire economy, so
much of GDP growth is coming from data
center investment and also consumer
spending which we know consumer spending
is concentrated in that higher income
cohort which has been supported by
wealth growth from market acceleration.
Um also, you know, harkening back to
data center investment, it's all it's
like a Jenga tower. Um all stemming, you
know, the very bottom row is all this AI
and data center uh CapEx. So, I think it
is very possible, you know, it doesn't
take much disruption to have quite a few
domino effects that are going to impact
the market in a more holistic way. Laura
Mayfield, thank you so much for being
with us this morning. Have a wonderful
New Year. Laura Mayfield of Fort
Washington Investment Advisors. As
people look to concentration risk, Guy,
it's not just in equities, it's not just
in bonds, it's frankly in the economy
too as we try to understand the low
higher low fire dynamic and what exactly
is going to be
going with that.
It's a really confusing market, isn't
it? But at the moment, everybody's on
the same side of the boat. Everybody's
going into next year looking super
positive. You talked about where are the
vigilantes earlier? Where are the where
are the bears in these markets as well?
It's too big a ride to get off at the
moment. The question is, [music] when it
is time to get off,
how quickly can you do it? And that's
what we're going to be talking about
coming up. Dana D'Oria of Investnet,
Nicole Behshow of ZipRecruiter,
Bloomberg's Enda Curran and Tyler Bowley
of Bank of America Institute as we look
to the final days of 2025. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. [music] Good
morning.
>> [music]
>> There's maybe a meaningful correction at
some point in over the course of 2026.
We want to make sure we're managing risk
well next year. What the market is
saying is that earnings matter more than
ever right now.
>> It is encouraging that we are seeing
broader participation in the [music]
rally. Investors need to be ready for
surprises and the unexpected. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz and Anne Marie
Hoardern.
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Stocks seeking direction
heading into the penultimate [music] day
of trading this year with silver and
gold rebounding after yesterday's brutal
session. Tech companies keeping busy to
end the year with Meta the latest make
an acquisition and all eyes on the US
economy with [music] some jobs data out
in about 15 minutes time and tomorrow we
get jobless claims. All of that possibly
shedding light on what to expect in
2026. Guy Johnson joining us from London
this morning. I'm [music] in in New
York. John and Anne Marie are both off
this week. A real question here, Guy,
about how much clarity we can get to
2026 amid a pretty murky backdrop
economically.
Uh so many things that that are unclear
at the moment. What happens with the Fed
next year? What's going on with
inflation? What does that mean in terms
of the dollar? Is Europe really going to
spend? What is happening on the
geopolitical front? There are multiple
wars that are still raging that could
also catch light and go further. I
There's so much uncertainty going in. It
is stunning that the US economy remains
as strong as it is. Is that down to big
tech? It is stunning [music] that asset
prices remain as elevated as they are.
How much volatility are we going to see
next year? Right now, not a whole lot,
at least not in the equity space. We saw
a little bit of a dip yesterday and the
day before, although we are seeing
stocks
>> [music]
>> near all-time highs. S&P futures going
nowhere. No volatility there. No action
there. You are seeing a bit of dollar
strength reassert itself. The euro down
just a tenth of a percent, 117.61.
Bond selling off. Watch the space
because it has built throughout the
morning. Up about three basis points on
the 10-year yield to 4.14%
and [music] silver. If you want action,
if you want excitement, check out the
metals market. Silver up 5.7%
after yesterday's biggest one-day loss
going [music] back more than five years.
Silver and gold best years going back to
1979. Copper experiencing its best year
going back to 2009. What is the metal
space telling [music] us? Meanwhile,
what we are expecting this week today
and tomorrow in particular, we're going
to be getting that ADP weekly labor
market indicator in about 13 minutes
[music] time. That will come out. We'll
break that down. Then of course at 2:00
p.m. this afternoon, we do get Fed
meeting minutes. Jobless claims come out
tomorrow at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. And then
everybody takes a well-deserved break on
Thursday for
>> [music]
>> New Year's Day. Coming up this hour,
Dana D'Oria of Investnet as stocks aim
to avoid a 3-day losing streak. Nicole
Beshow of ZipRecruiter previewing the
labor market for 2026 and Taylor Boley
of Bank of America Institute looking
[music] back at the top five themes from
this past year. Dissecting what the
consumer could be telling us. We begin
this hour with stocks going nowhere as
traders trim bets on mega-cap tech
stocks heading into the end of 2025.
Dana D'Oria of Investnet joins us now.
Dana, you did some work on what a Santa
rally actually is looking at how often
you usually see gains. Why is it not
working this time around?
Yeah, um unfortunately it's not. I mean
of course we have nothing to complain
about, right? That this has been another
double-digit year. Um and you know, the
the economy has remained very strong in
spite of kind of taking some crazy hits
when we look back across the course of
the year. So, we may not hit that 20%.
It's not looking good uh at this stage
of the game, but it's still been a
phenomenal year in markets and I think,
you know, it it might be too much to
expect at this point. You know, and
stocks don't really have a catalyst,
right? Uh there there's, you know, to
your point on, you know, kind of Fed
meeting minutes coming out uh later this
afternoon. We'll we'll get some
interesting content there, but you know,
we and and jobs report coming out, but I
mean where things stand today, there's
not a huge amount that's going to happen
in the course of this week that's going
to kind of drive stocks forward. I think
we probably have to be happy with the
phenomenal performance we already
received this year. That probably is too
much to ask for people waiting for extra
gains to put into their stocking at year
end. There is this question though about
whether we are seeing a true rotation.
And that's what you're seeing this
morning on the margins. I mean it is
tepid. Let's be honest. It's not exactly
an active trading session, but you are
seeing the outperformance come from the
Russell 2000. And you have seen that
over the past 3 weeks. Is that something
you can kind of sink your teeth into and
say it has lasting power?
Uh we'll see. Uh we certainly have
economic data at this point that
suggests that the Fed saying that
there's one rate cut coming next year is
low, right? We know Fed funds futures
already thinks that, you know, we're
going to have more than that. If
employment keeps weakening, if inflation
kind of stays somewhat cool, it's hard
to imagine that the Fed doesn't cut
more. And if the Fed cuts more, that's
great for small caps. And so I think to
a certain extent some of that might be
filtering into, you know, the
expectation set for that part of the
economy. Uh look, I'm a I'm a strong
believer in having that kind of
diversification in the portfolio to
begin with. I mean obviously large caps
have outpaced small caps this year, but
I think if you take a step back and look
from just a broad diversification theme,
we've had a phenomenal year for
diversification, right? International
developed emerging market stocks,
30-plus returns. So, as good as it's
been in the US market, if you had a
diversified outlook in your portfolio,
you probably did better. And small caps
are around 15%. This is not a bad
outcome, right? For spreading your
dollars, spreading the risk a little
bit, particularly when we know the large
cap index is so concentrated. It's so
heavily dependent and top-heavy on, you
know, certain stocks. So, it whether
we're rotating into small caps or, you
know, we're we're seeing some of the
effect of interest rate chatter, I think
it's a great thing to have that kind of
diversification in your portfolio.
Dana, let's dig into that a little bit
more. Does the dollar continue to weaken
in 2026? You've just talked about the
fact that maybe the Fed continues to
cut. That would imply maybe it does.
Yeah, for sure. I mean obviously the
dollar's been kind of a release valve
here over the course of the last year.
And, you know, notwithstanding that, you
know, we know we don't know for sure
what's happening with inflation, right?
We we we see a report that came out. The
data we we know because of the shutdown
the the data there's questions around
that. We want to get back to a place
where we're collecting data very
effectively, efficiently as we used to
and getting what we feel is a really
solid look at what inflation is doing.
Um and that's obviously going to have a
huge impact on where the dollar goes in
2026. But for sure, you know, to the
extent that we have interest rate cuts,
um you know, and by the way, this is
just sort of to a to to a large extent
getting the US on pace with what with
the accommodative policy we've seen in
the rest of the globe um you know,
throughout the year as well. So, this
isn't you know, it's not to say that
this is uh deterministic, but we have to
see where inflation goes and yes,
interest rate cuts of course if they're
if they're significantly more than
expected, it will have that impact.
Dana, you you talked about the
diversification trade. In dollar terms,
if I'm a dollar investor, I've made 30%
in the FTSE 100 this year, 25%
in the CAC 40. The DAX has delivered
nearly 40%. The Spanish market has
delivered nearly 70%. Are those kinds of
numbers for US investors going to be
available next year? How much like how
much emphasis do I need to put on the
XUS part of my portfolio?
I think, you know, the starting point at
from an academic right? If nothing else,
first principles here, the starting
point is what is the global ratio,
right? So, MSCI ACWI All Country World
Index. That gives me a great starting
point for where I potentially want to
have international stocks. Now of
course, you know, coming from a place
where it's retail investors, it's
advisors needing to keep clients
disciplined in their in their
portfolios, which is sort of job number
one, you know, you you have to measure
that to a certain extent. If US is
gangbusters next year uh and they're
measuring against the S&P 500 index, it
may be hard to keep them in place if
international stocks don't deliver. So,
to a certain extent there's a behavioral
question here around how much can the
can the person tolerate? What are they
looking to as the benchmark against that
portfolio? If they're looking to a world
index, I think the starting point being
the world, you know, that ACWI index
that includes emerging markets. But if
they're not, if they're really tied to a
US view, then maybe you have a little
bit of a reduced uh
you know, diversification hedge there
with international, but it's not as big
in the portfolios it otherwise would be
because the client just, you know,
if US does poorly, they're expecting
their portfolio not to do as well. But
if US outperforms, it's tough for them
to kind of stay put. And you know, these
are just kind of uh the behavioral
considerations. And I'll again say I
think small caps have have a place, you
know, both small caps and value stocks
over time have outperformed. We haven't
seen a lot of that in the last several
years, but I think some of these
fundamentals, these first principle
fundamentals are good not only for the
potential to outperform over the long
haul, but also for diversifying again
what is a very concentrated top-heavy,
you know, index at this point. And most
people have that in their portfolios,
right? Unless you have massive tracking
error to the index, you have a ton of AI
trade, right? A ton of big tech. Well,
the diversification trade has sort of
taken on new meaning every single year
as people try to decry the death of the
60/40 portfolio. I just wonder how much
you have seen a true shift toward
precious metals as a diversifier at a
time where you've seen an incredible run
so far this year.
Yeah, no doubt. Uh people sort of it was
this barbell kind of approach, right? To
how people were putting portfolios
together. And so you had I wanted not
miss out on the AI trade, but at the
same time the ballast in my portfolio
becomes gold or or even silver now at
this point. Uh I do think what's
happening in the retail space as well is
more diversification into these sort of
alternative asset classes. And a lot of
that is happening because of product
innovation in the space. So, not only
commodities, not only precious metals,
but private equity, private credit in
particular. And a lot of that's
happening because there's vehicle
availability that allows retail
investors through things like interval
funds. These are point and clicks. You
can't get out of the fund as quickly as
you can a general
a standard mutual fund, but you can get
in and you can get access to a different
return stream. Uh we all know there's
correlation there. It's the
mark-to-market that kind of makes that
correlation look lower than it is, but
at the same time you are getting access
to companies that you're not going to
get in the public equity markets. And so
what we're seeing in the retail space is
massive interest in sort of to your
point diversifying that 60/40 and doing
it with alternative assets now that
they're more accessible to the average
client. Dana D'Oria of
to you. Right now, let's turn focus and
get an update in stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg Brief
with Lizzie Burden. Lizzie.
Hi Lisa. President Donald Trump
reiterating that he'd love to fire Fed
chair Jay Powell. Trump saying [music]
he might still fire him for quote gross
incompetence. Trump came close to
seeking the Fed chair's ouster in July
of course, but backed away after [music]
a negative reaction in financial
markets. He said he'll probably announce
his pick for Fed chair in [music]
January and his preferred candidate
hasn't changed. Elsewhere, tensions are
escalating in the Arab world after a
Saudi-led coalition carried out air
strikes on a port in Yemen. [music] The
strikes targeted a weapons shipment from
the UAE, which is supporting armed
groups in the south of the country.
Saudi Arabia told the UAE to withdraw
its forces and halt its support saying
its actions are highly dangerous. And a
high-speed railway company Eurostar has
indefinitely [music] suspended its
cross-channel train services between
London and continental Europe due to an
overhead power supply problem. The
[music] company has strongly advised
companies to postpone their trips to
another day despite this being the peak
travel season. That's your Bloomberg
Brief, Lisa. Thank you so much, Lizzie.
Up next, the weekly ADP employment data
set to cross in just about 3 [music]
minutes time. Nicole Beshow of
ZipRecruiter with us to break down the
state of the labor market. That's next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good
morning.
>> [music]
>> Yeah.
>> If Powell chooses to stay, which would
be historically unprecedented, then uh
it will mean that there's probably uh
less willingness to cut rates
aggressively. If he leaves, it'll give
the Trump administration one more seat
in which they can potentially remake
that committee um and uh potentially
then advocate for lower rates. [music]
Uh history would suggest that Powell
will step down, but this is indeed his
decision. That was Mark Cabana of Bank
of America as the race to replace Fed
Chair Jerome Powell heats up. That
conversation ongoing. The likely
successor to be announced probably early
next year. [music] Right now in markets,
you are seeing a churn across the board.
Equity futures going nowhere at least to
the S&P and Nasdaq essentially flat. You
are seeing yields higher though. Watch
this space. Two basis point increase on
the 10-year yield. 4.13%.
Silver gaining almost 6% after
yesterday's sell-off of the biggest
going back [music] to 2020. And 20. As a
real question emerges about what silver
and gold are coming up. For time now for
the morning calls. First up, Baird
reiterating its outperform rating on
Tesla with a $548 price target. The firm
recommending owning the EV into the new
year. It continues viewing the company
as a core holding. Those shares up 8/10
of a percent despite [music] discussion
currently about waning demand. Next up,
Raymond James removing Shake Shack from
its analyst current favorites list given
software and does industry trends
through the fourth quarter. [music]
Raymond James continues to have a strong
buy rating on the shares with a $150
price target. Those shares lower by 2.2%
[music]
in premarket trading. And finally,
Barclays raising its price target on
Johnson & Johnson to $217 from $197
[music]
and keeping an equal weight rating on
the shares. The firm seeing upside to Q4
consensus [music]
estimates. Those shares essentially
flat. Turning to the economy weekly ADP
employment [music] data not crossing
yet. Bloomberg's Enda Curran joining
joining us now. And uh hard to know what
to do with this data, but heading into
this, how clear of a look have we had on
the US labor market picture?
It's obviously a volatile uh period
right now at least as you know around
the holidays between the ADP today. Of
course, the initial jobless claims
tomorrow. There's lots of noise in in
those figures. Uh what we do know though
is that clearly the labor market has
been softening. We had the official
release
uh the highest in a couple of years. But
still where the tension in this story is
Lisa is over whether or not we are now
seeing a significant slowdown with
broad-based layoffs or whether it's
still kind of isolated pocketed examples
of even though they're well-known brand
name companies announcing job cuts.
That's not necessarily translating into
um you know, wide-scale job losses in
the broader labor market. So I think
right here right now the story hasn't
changed much over the last couple of
months really. It's that yes, the labor
market softening. We know that policy
makers are worried about it. But the big
debate going into 2026 is just how weak
it is. And that that will be resolved I
think in the near term by these by these
private sector data. Well, the private
sector data is supposed to come out at
8:15. Hasn't come out yet, but we will
catch you up on it as it does. Uh
potentially across Enda Curran. Stay
close as we do wait for those numbers.
So turning to the labor market picture,
we want to speak with Nicole Bashaw of
ZipRecruiter who wrote the low hire low
fire environment that defined much of
2025 will persist into early 2026. But
with a crucial difference, employers are
preparing for growth, not just survival.
Nicole joins us now. Nicole, thank you
so much for being with us. So let's get
into that. This idea that you could
start to see a revival of the labor
market that has been pretty moribund for
the second half of this year.
Whatever movements we see in 2026 will
be gradual. This is going to be slow and
steady wins the race here. Instead of
any sort of dramatic surge that could
reignite inflation pressures, we will
see hiring activity slowly start to pick
up as clarity kind of comes into view
around policies like inflation and
tariffs and how these factors are going
to continue to impact employers into the
new year.
Nicole, who's going to be employed in
this next phase? Is it going to be
graduates? Is it going to be workers on
AI data centers? Kind of where where is
the growth going to come from?
We're not seeing AI really reshaping
where people are working. We're really
seeing AI right now impacting the labor
market in how certain roles are showing
up. Workers who are able to utilize AI
to increase uh productivity, to
streamline their processes, that's where
we're going to see the most demand. And
we're already seeing employers start to
focus on uh upskilling their current
workforce. And employers who are able to
remove unnecessary barriers to make it
easier to integrate AI into their
workflows and to train employees on how
to use those tools properly, that's
where we're going to see the biggest uh
hiring bumps into the new year. Uh is
employee employers who are really going
to be able to take advantage of those
movements. When we look at the new grad
side of the house, we have seen you
know, obviously this is a really
challenging labor market for new
entrants. Um there is evidence from some
surveys that we've done at ZipRecruiter
that employers are eager to hire more
new grads into the year. Uh more early
early talent into their pipeline that
has kind of been missed over the last
couple of years. Uh as focus has been
shifted away from those higher tenured
roles into into earlier processes in in
the labor market.
What does this mean for wages?
Wages will likely start to stagnate
across 2026. We've seen wages and
inflation kind of converging together
over the past several months. As
inflation continues to cool, wages will
likely continue to to come down from
where they're at. Uh we saw around 3.5%
annual growth in the last uh labor
market readouts.
Um and and we'll likely see that
continuing to slip a bit into 2026 as
well. How much Nicole are we starting to
see uh the employment picture move away
from health care and some of these
defensive areas that need bodies and go
to more growth areas? I'm thinking of
services. I'm thinking of uh
manufacturing. Are you starting to see
any of that shift whatsoever?
Uh quite the opposite. We're still
seeing health care being the dominant
industry as well as construction and
other manual labor and skilled labor
trades. Uh health care is going to
continue to dominate throughout 2026 and
beyond, especially as US population
continues to age. There will be more
demand for health care services,
especially support roles like nursing
and home health aids. As we're seeing
the the population demographics kind of
point towards uh more bulk in that
workforce for the future. So we will
continue to see those manual and skilled
trades uh kind of pushing up the labor
market. And the cyclical uh cycles um uh
of uh of industries where we look at
manufacturing and retail, those are
going to continue to stay stagnant while
while employers are figuring out how
tariffs are really going to be impacting
their business lines moving forward.
Taking a step back, Nicole, when we take
a look at 2025, a lot of people will say
this was the year when suddenly the
labor market was buffeted by a secular
trend with artificial intelligence and
companies not wanting to hire
particularly entry-level jobs because in
entry-level positions because they could
see potential efficiencies with
technology. Do you have any evidence to
back that up? Do you think that that's
going to become an even greater story in
2026?
I I don't. And I don't know that there's
a lot of evidence that really points to
AI being the actual reason, whether
that's in the headlines or not, being
the actual reason for a lot of the
slowdowns in hiring we've seen. It's a
convenient excuse uh for for low hiring
uh given a lot of the other factors
going on in the macro environment that
are impacting businesses right now.
When we look ahead to 2026, you know,
there's a lot of of room for for AI to
continue to reshape how workers show up
to their jobs. But there's so much work
that's not able to be taken over by AI,
especially not where we're at right now.
Uh so this is still going to be a
gradual pick up to where we see AI
really uh you know, hitting its stride
and and taking over a lot of the
automated tasks in the workforce. But
that's not necessarily what we're seeing
right now.
Nicole, the Fed has delivered a series
of rate cuts which were
labeled insurance cuts. Insurance about
a
related to a labor market that it was
apparently slowing down. A, were those
insurance cuts required? And B, if they
were required, what effect have they
had?
Unemployment has been rising throughout
the second half of 2025. So the the cuts
intending to stabilize unemployment, you
know, did come at the right time. But
the goal of those cuts is to stimulate
more hiring activity and we have not
seen that happen yet. We haven't seen
businesses be able to translate those
lower rates into actual hires and more
job growth. That hopefully will come in
the next couple of months. This is also
coming at a really challenging time as
you all know with this big kind of data
blackout and murky data situation due to
the government shutdown. So as we look
ahead to next week where we're
anticipating a new jobs report and and
jolts report to look at how openings and
and job growth look
towards the end of this year, that will
really help to clarify, you know,
whether or not we're actually seeing uh
those cuts do what they're intended to
do or if we're still seeing a lot of
stagnation as tariffs um and and sticky
inflation continue to take hold of
employers. Nicole Bashaw of
ZipRecruiter, thank you so much. And a
quick note, it appears that the ADP data
will resume at the beginning of the
year. It is not coming out right now.
There is this question, Guy, and I
wonder what you've heard about this, but
a couple of people in private
conversation said that one reason why
there just wasn't a lot of hiring wasn't
anything to do with artificial
intelligence, but just was people didn't
like the stock coming out and they kind
of wanted to sit on their hands,
especially after over-hiring during the
pandemic, and that that had more to do
with it than anything else.
I think it's the problem is we don't
know, Lisa.
And I think this is this is the issue
that we're all facing right now. We've
had these Fed rate cuts, which were
insurance cuts,
designed to insure against who knows
what. I The labor market, yeah, it's
showing some some weakness, but we don't
know why.
So, I just
it does feel as if we're going into next
year with a huge degree of uncertainty
around A, inflation, and B, the labor
market. The Fed's already delivered a
series of cuts designed to maybe
stabilize one.
If those turn out to not be necessary,
what does the trajectory look like?
Yeah, well, this is what a lot of people
are wondering, especially given that the
data has been so muddy that we have
gotten. Coming up in just a bit, Yahaira
On-Air back with your morning movers.
Freeport-McMoRan shares rising on the
heels of copper's record run, the
longest run going [music] back to 2017,
the biggest yearly gain since 2009. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance. Good morning.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Quiet morning, the second-to-last
trading day of 2025.
You are seeing little action when it
comes to equity [music] futures,
certainly the S&P and the Nasdaq right
now doing nothing. You are seeing
Russell 2000 up about a tenth of a
percent. In the bond space, choose tens
and 30s, you are seeing a bit of a
sell-off, particularly at the longer
end, although clawing back from some of
the earlier [music]
declines that we had seen. Yields higher
by two basis points at the long end to
4.82%
in the metal space. This has been the
action for the entirety of the last
couple of weeks. We see silver, [music]
we see gold, we see copper, all of them
inflected upward as that rip-roaring
rally continues [music] for the year.
You have seen the best yearly gain for
gold and silver going back to 2000 to
1979. 1 hour away from the cash open
here. Are your morning movers
Hi, Lisa. We start with
Freeport-McMoRan, [music]
a major copper producer here in the US.
Shares are up 2% [music] in the
premarket as copper heads for its eighth
straight day of gains, the longest
winning streak since [music] back in
2017, and the strong run this year has
been driven by the threat of US tariffs.
Traders have been [music] rushing copper
to US ports in order to get ahead of
those potential levies. It's tightened
supplies elsewhere, and that has led to
a more than 40% rally [music]
in copper this year. Sticking with
precious metals, cuz as you said, it is
the story of the morning and the past
few weeks. We have the world's largest
gold miner, Newmont. [music] Shares are
rising 2.2% after falling 6% yesterday
tracking gold's slide [music]
from record highs, though, with the
precious metals rally back on this
morning, we are seeing these miners
tracking those gains. [music] And we end
on another company benefiting from a
major theme this year, AI. Applied
Digital shares are up 2.3% in the
premarket on news that the data center
company is spinning [music] out its
cloud computing unit and merging it with
another company in an effort to
streamline its business. This is a stock
that investors [music] have loved this
year due to its role in the AI
infrastructure build-out with shares up
more than 200% year-to-date, Lisa.
Thank you so much, Yahaira, and happy
New Year to you. Turning to the Federal
Reserve, President Donald Trump has his
pick for the next Fed chair, but is in
no rush to announce his decision.
You've said that you have one favorite,
but you're also doing interviews.
Hasn't changed.
You'll announce them at the right time.
There's plenty of time. President Donald
Trump adding that Powell, quote, should
resign and that he'd, quote, love to
fire him. Bloomberg's Enda Curran back
with us. Taking a step back from the
drama that is who is going to become the
next Fed chair. There is this larger
question about how significant of a role
the Fed plays in the US economy next
year. Do we have a sense of how interest
rate sensitive this US economy is still
is?
I mean, clearly there are pockets, Lisa,
that remain interest rate sensitive,
some that aren't, of course. You could
argue that the AI build-out is sort of
happening quite divorced from what's
going on with monetary policy, but you
could argue those people who have car
loans or who are trying to get in the
housing ladder, or maybe even have lost
their job, those people certainly would
welcome lower interest rates. I think,
no matter where you stand on that, the
the key sort of metric for the story,
for the monetary policy debate next year
in the US, is going to be about the jobs
market. If we continue to see the job
market weakening, maybe even materially,
at a time when inflation continues to
cool down, then it will be hard to make
the case that rates should stay where
they are and that they shouldn't go
lower. I think that that's going to be
the key metric. The Fed themselves have
noted they might be near that neutral
territory, but clearly, um, they've left
the door open to further easing at some
point. It's a question of what the data
says and when they might do that. And
I'm just wondering what you're looking
for when we get the meeting minutes from
the previous Fed confab later this
afternoon. What do you think is going to
be most important to see?
I think, very simply, will it reinforce
the idea that the Fed will stay on hold
when they meet in January, Lisa? As you
know, that December meeting a few weeks
ago, a 9-3 vote, very divided on the
outlook. We had a signal in the
statement suggesting that perhaps, uh,
policymakers might be on hold for now.
We had those comments from Chair Powell
afterwards in the press conference make
the point they're closer to neutral,
maybe hinting there that they might be
on hold for now. We know policymakers
are very divided. We see that in their
forecast for the year ahead. Some, like
Governor Waller, looking for, um, a big
bigger rate cuts. Others like other
others like Austan Goolsbee, of course,
uh, suggesting that, um, they need to
stay on hold. But one thing that's is,
uh, worth noting, Lisa, is that the data
hasn't really cleared up anything in the
debate about inflation versus employment
since they met. I mean, we had
unemployment data since they met
suggesting unemployment has risen up to
4.6%.
Uh, okay, that's worrying on that side,
but we also had the Q3 GDP data, which
suggests that obviously very strong
growth, which you could argue might lend
itself towards inflation side of that
debate. So, it's a divided outlook. It's
a muddy outlook. the least we'll be
looking for from these minutes today is
just whether or not policymakers want to
sit out that January meeting.
Enda, good morning. It's Guy. We've had
insurance cuts. Now, generally, when you
buy insurance, you you you kind of
haven't had the the event that you're
buying the insurance for.
Oh, where are we in that kind of how
much is necessary to stabilize the
economy debate? I We've had a whole lot
of rate cuts. Is it enough? How much
more would be required to have an impact
on the labor market? We were just
talking to ZipRecruiter. I
Not much of an impact seems to be the
consensus at the moment in terms of the
effect that those cuts have had. I When
do we start to see the effect of them?
Yeah, good morning, Guy. I think it
takes a while. So, 75 odd bips worth of
cuts this year in the US. As we know, it
takes some time for that to pass through
the economy. Uh, and of course, as Lisa
just highlighted, some sectors won't
even be impacted by that at all. You
talk about the housing story. We know
from if you have a mortgage right now,
you're probably not going to be looking
to move or sell your home, for example.
So, that's going to stay removed from
where the rate cut story is going. The
AI boom is carrying on regardless one
way or another. It's sort of
divorced from what's happening with
monetary policy. But again, I think when
you talk with those pressured parts of
the economies, like the small businesses
who need new loans, who need
refinancing,
uh, those who are looking to get in the
housing ladder,
uh, those who are in the variable rate
loan space, the auto loan auto loan
space has been back in the news. Those
people clearly will be welcoming the
lower borrowing costs that the banks
offer them. But again, it's critical
what the market yields do, Guy.
Uh, and of course, it's critical in
terms of how much further the Fed goes
from here. So, you know, it's not a
game-changer for the economy, but it's
trying to get ahead of the curve, I
think, is what the Fed is doing.
How big a danger is there that if the
Fed cuts too aggressively, the mortgage
rates go up, not down?
Well, that's the big talking point at at
the moment. I mean, and this is the big,
you know, Chair Powell has made the
point there's no risk-free path here.
Um, one of the big concerns is the
trajectory for US borrowing, and and
that's said to be keeping some upward
pressure on yields. The Fed rate cuts
haven't really had much of an impact on
on market yields so far, and that's of
course what drives the loans that people
take out on Main Street. Uh, I think a
lot of it will come down to credibility.
You know, who becomes next Fed chair,
will they be willing to steer the Fed on
the basis of what the economy needs
rather than what the politics of the day
demands, and what will the data be
saying? As I say, if inflation is
continuing to head back towards target,
clearly and consistently, and
unemployment is, uh, if not holding
where it is, softening, then there's
clearly a case that the Fed can lower
interest rates. But if that's not
happening, then that story becomes very
complicated very quickly, and that's
where you start to see the market
reaction, and that's where you I think
everyone will be looking very closely to
see how yields will respond to what both
the data and the Fed are telling them as
we go through next year. Enda Curran,
thank you so much for being with us, as
always. Sticking with the Fed, National
Economic Council Director Kevin Hassett
has told President Donald Trump he would
accept the nomination to replace Jay
Powell as Fed chair if the job was
offered. Hassett appeared on the David
Rubenstein Show, Peer to Peer
Conversations last month at the Economic
Club, uh, of Washington, D.C. to discuss
the possible role change. Take a listen.
So, you may have, uh, noticed the
president was calling on the chairman of
the Federal Reserve to lower interest
rates.
And, um,
Uh, really? He did? Yes, he did. Oh. And
he, um, and interest rates have been
lowered the last time the Federal
Reserve
FOMC committee met they lowered by 25
basis points. There's a wide expectation
that the Federal Reserve Board might
lower again in December. Do you have a
view on whether if the Fed does lower it
should be 25 basis points or 50 basis
points as the president or do you have a
view on what it might be better for the
economy?
Well, I you know first I want to say
that that I have high regard for Jay
Powell. I've known him for a long time
and have [snorts] had economic
conversations with him many many times
during the last administration and this
time too. I think at times he and I have
had policy disagreements. You think it's
more likely to do 50 than 25? think
they're not likely to do 50 given More
likely to do 25? Would that satisfy the
president you think? I think that the
president thinks rates could be a lot
lower and I agree with him on that. You
were one of five people that the
Secretary of Treasury has on a short
list to be the next chairman of the Fed.
Why would you want to be chairman of the
Fed?
>> [laughter]
>> Right now you get to work with the
president every day and he's not
criticizing you at all.
So
Are you sure you want that job?
You know it's it's a thing that
first of all I have to say that that I
as you know
feel like I'm the luckiest economist
alive because I have the best job I
think an economist could possibly have
if you spent your life doing you know
economic policy
unless you're a monetary theorist. Being
director of the National Economic
Council is my dream job and if the
president asked me to be Fed chair then
I'll of course I'll do it
but if I'm not Fed chair don't be
disappointed for me because I love the
job that I have right now and I'm so
honored to be able to work with the
president every day. Do you have any
view on when the president might make
the decision or make it public? Would it
be this year or next year? I don't have
a view on when the optimal time for that
is and I've not discussed that with the
president. I think that people in
Washington
will understand that that you know a
confirmation struggle for a position
that's that significant can be quite
difficult. And then
if it goes on for a really long time
which like so we think Jay probably
isn't leaving until May
then that just creates like a long
period
you know
confirmation struggles that can be
pretty ugly. And so and so
I don't know what the optimal time is
but but I would guess that that as soon
as you do it
then the sort of confirmation turmoil
will begin. Most presidents in the last
25 years or so have supported and
secretaries of Treasury supported what
is called a strong dollar policy which
is to have the dollar be really strong
and never support anything that would
lower it. Is it fair to say you do not
have a strong dollar policy or you happy
with the where the dollar is now? If you
look at the dollar chart then you know
it's it's stronger now than it was when
Trump left office but it's down a little
bit from from its peak.
And I think that the strong dollar
policy is a sound policy and I think
that you know basically
I don't almost say
that if I were running any country
anywhere I would want the currency to be
sound because we know what happens to
countries when the currency isn't sound.
And so I think
if if you
want to have
you know an inflation take care of your
deficit then you're on the road to
financial crisis. And so I think that
one of the ways that we can maintain
fiscal discipline is to be really
committed to a strong dollar. Right now
the uh
budget deficit is generally been the
last couple years about two trillion
dollars a year more or less. More or
less we spend roughly seven trillion
dollars a year we take in roughly five
trillion a year and we generally have
about two trillion deficit maybe it's
coming down now. But we have about 38
trillion overall of debt. Do you see any
way that to reduce that indebtedness in
the next couple years or so or
realistically we're stuck with 38
trillion or rising a little bit over the
next couple years? Right. Well, to
reduce the debt right then you have to
run a surplus. And and so the question
is do you reduce the debt relative to
the target or not? And we clearly are
doing that with the big reductions in
the deficit right now. And so I think
that those will continue and I'm also
extremely bullish about growth but it's
not just growth that's doing it. It's
the fact that we have tariff revenue and
we've got a lot more spending restraint
than was here in the past. National
Economic Council Director Kevin Hassett
on the David Rubenstein show
peer-to-peer conversations. Do not miss
those. Always wonderful to listen to.
Right now let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here is
your Bloomberg Brief with Lizzie Burden.
Lizzie.
Hi Lisa. President Donald Trump says
that the US struck a facility inside
Venezuela in what would be a significant
escalation in its campaign against
alleged drug [music] trafficking
operations there. Trump's reference to
an attack within Venezuela would mark
the first time the US has announced a
land strike in [music] the country.
Elsewhere the controversy over President
Donald Trump's name being added to the
Kennedy Arts Center [music] is
continuing. The New York Times reporting
a veteran jazz ensemble and a New York
dance company have both canceled events
for New Year's Eve. This follows the
cancellation of an annual Christmas
[music] Eve jazz concert. The Times
reporting that the Kennedy Center
chairman says the artists canceling
shows were quote far left political
activists. And in sports the Atlanta
Falcons stunned the Los Angeles Rams 27
to 24 in the final Monday night football
game of the regular season. [music]
Falcons star running back Bijan
Robinson's racked up 229 total yards and
two touchdowns in the victory. [music]
Kicker Zane Gonzalez nailed a 51-yard
field goal to seal the upset. That's
your Bloomberg Brief Lisa. Thank you so
much Lizzie and thank you so much for
this morning. Up next setting you up for
the day ahead plus Taylor Bolly of the
Bank of America Institute breaking down
the top five themes from this past year.
Don't miss [music] that. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]
[music]
>> What matters is how the interplay of the
risks and the tailwinds are going to
interplay in 2026. [music] It's going to
be
a very confusing data landscape and I
think [music] people have this idea that
the tariffs are behind us and that the
the um
uncertainty from tariffs are behind us.
That is not our view. We think that that
uncertainty is going to prevail next
year. And and again one of those signals
from that that high retained earnings
shows that firms are are paralyzed.
They're uncertain. What are What are
they going to do with these profits? And
I think that's the big you The answer to
that question is going to be the answer
to the contour of the economy. That was
Constance Hunter of Economist
Intelligence at a time where there isn't
a lot of clarity and right now markets
aren't really doing that much certainly
not the equity futures that have been
range bound throughout the morning. It's
supposed to be the Santa rally time and
we haven't seen it over the past two
sessions today fading just a little bit.
Futures lower by about a tenth of a
percent. You are seeing just a touch of
a sell-off in the bond space but nothing
major two basis point increase 4.13%
silver
gaining gaining after yesterday's
sell-off up 4.8% [music]
reclaiming some of those record highs.
Counting down counting down to the
opening bell. Here's a trading diary for
the week ahead. 2:00 p.m. Eastern is the
big event Fed meeting minutes. Tomorrow
we get jobless claims and enhanced
health care subsidies that are set to
expire. On Thursday congratulations
you've made it. Welcome to 2026 and have
a day off. As you prepare to ring in the
new year one narrative that has been
central to 2025 the Bank of America
Institute writing economic resilience
has been a key theme although
affordability looks different across
households. A K-shaped recovery emerged
in the second half of the year. Taylor
Bolly of Bank of America Institute joins
us now. Taylor thank you so much for
being with us. Happy New Year. Happy
holidays. I want to start with some of
the themes that you have seen and really
the consumer resilience has been a theme
that has pervaded the entire holiday
shopping season even within that
K-shaped rubric. What has been behind
that consumer resilience? Yeah,
absolutely. I would say resilience is
one of the key words when I think of
2025 and the consumer spending element
of this has been really interesting
because in the first half of the year
things were a little rocky. And what
we've seen in our data which mind you we
look across nearly 70 million consumer
and small business accounts so we can
really see in real time how consumers
are reacting. And what we've seen is in
the second half of the year pretty
strong spending growth. And thinking
about the holiday season it was really
interesting. I mean you could see that
consumers were splurging some but they
were also being more selective in what
they were actually buying. So there was
a little bit of pullback around some
services like restaurants or airlines
and just more of a conscious consumer
and saying okay maybe I'm going to be
more savvy when I'm shopping online and
looking for certain items. Well, this
raises this issue of how much some of
the retailers can pass on price
increases because we've seen them say
that they plan on doing that early next
year. And yet what you're saying is that
people have been pretty smart about
their shopping right? They've been
really selective. Has it been price
driven or has it been region driven or
has it been just depending on what kind
of income level you're at? I mean we've
definitely seen you touched on this
right? A K-shaped recovery. And within
our data we have seen that higher income
household spending has taken off whereas
lower income spending growth has lagged
a little bit. And part of that story
goes back to wage growth because at the
end of the day, ultimately the people
that are bringing money home, that's
going to determine what they can
actually budget, what they can allocate
towards. So, what we're seeing is that
even during holiday shopping season,
higher income spending growth was
outpacing that of lower income. One
thing that Torsten Slok over at Apollo
noted, and he just put out a chart over
the past couple of days showing that
income growth has actually exceeded
inflation over the past couple of
months. And it really kind of points to
this
question around small businesses and how
much they need to do well in order for
the consumer to continue powering the
economy. What have you seen when it
comes to small businesses and their
ability to keep expanding, hiring, and
passing along some of their profits?
Yeah, and small businesses, you know,
there's this this understanding of,
okay, how is Main Street doing versus
Wall Street? And Bank of America has
been the top small business lender for
the 17th quarter in a row. So, because
we're providing these small businesses
capital, we have a really unique insight
into how they're spending, how they're
growing, how they're managing hiring.
And what we've seen is the tariff impact
has been there. And that's led to, even
though profits are still positive, the
rate at which those profits are really
happening is starting to slow. And that
also is the same when we look at the
small business hiring landscape. We have
an indicator that says, okay, how often
are small businesses really hiring? And
it's about a month ahead of JOLTS. And
what we've seen is that it's about 4%
below the 2024 average level. So, what
that tells us is that this theme of a
cooling labor market is hitting small
businesses. Well, just again, that this
sort of speaks to a bifurcation in the
economy right now where some people are
saying, "Just take a look at third
quarter GDP. It was a significant
expansion, the fastest going back two
years. Take a look at what the AI
investments have been. Wow, it really is
powering this economy ahead." And then
you see small businesses and they really
aren't feeling it. They're not passing
it along. So, which theme is going to be
the one that you think is going to
really take precedence in 2026? I mean,
we talked about 2025, keyword being
resilient. I think 2026 is really about
adaptability. How small businesses are
handling the policy landscape, how
consumers are also reacting. And of
course, on top of all of this, for both
consumers and small businesses, is the
shape of the labor market. And what
we're seeing in our data is that
unemployment payments is kind of holding
steady. There's not a sign of a total
collapse, but there's certainly a
moderation and something to look out for
as we head to the new year.
Taylor, thank you so much for being
here. Wonderful to meet you and to catch
up with you heading into the new year.
Taylor Buley of the Bank of America
Institute, we appreciate you being here.
Guy, this is something that people talk
about heading into next year. Which
story is really going to take
precedence? Is it going to be the AI
story and some of the gains that it
drives? Is it going to be the real
economy where you haven't seen the kind
of gains catch up, the sort of K-shape
that seems to pervade every discussion
that we have?
How important are stock prices going to
be in this? How much How important is
the wealth effect driving that upper
part of the K?
If you start to see a crack somewhere,
does it turn into a crack elsewhere? I
There's so many questions.
There are very few years I think we've
gone into with with this this number of
questions, this level of uncertainties.
The Fed's given us a bit of an insurance
to wrap around it, but is it going to be
enough? We don't know. Has the Fed gone
too far? We don't know yet. Which is
going to be the biggest theme next year?
Is it going to be unemployment or is it
going to be inflation? And all of that's
going to take us into the midterms,
Lisa, where the affordability story is
going to be front and center. Can Trump
have rate cuts
and a resolution to the to the
affordability crisis all wrapped up in a
nice nice neat bow? Can the Fed deliver
that? I this I I just don't know how
much of this is going to be resolved
quickly and how investors are going to
position for it. At the moment,
everybody's on one side of the boat, and
that's positive.
Do we get more volatility next year?
Well, right now people are positioning
for future gains with a host of bulls on
Wall Street. Guy Johnson, always
wonderful to have you on the show. Thank
you so much for being with us. Wonderful
to have you. Right now, what you are
seeing in markets
the second to last day of the trading
2025, you are seeing range bound
activity in S&P futures down about a
tenth of a percent. The Nasdaq actually
building on losses down two tenths of a
percent. The Russell 2000 giving up. In
the bond space, you have seen just a
little bit of sell-off. Guy was talking
about this question around the Fed, how
much control they have over the long end
with the sell-off continuing there.
30-year yields ending above where they
were to start the year. They started the
year at 4.77. They're ending the year
almost the same place, 4.81%. You have
seen gains, declines in yield for both
the two-year and the 10-year. Don't miss
the space of metals. What you're seeing
there [music] with gold, silver, copper
all building on gains so far this year.
Coming up tomorrow, Michael Purvis of
Tallbacken Capital Advisors, Michael
Reed of RBC, Barbara Duran of BDA
Capital, and Claudia Sahm of New Century
Advisors as we take [music] you into
2026. This was Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.
>> [music]